dickens|It was a hard day, that day of being among them, with the first reservation of their joint lives on his mind.
austen|How often we shall be going to see them, and they coming to see us!
austen|What blindness, what madness, had led her on!
austen|Poor little Emma!
austen|Oh yes!
dickens|I looked at both of them, from one to the other, and then  Its my weddingday!
dickens|The two brothers crossed the road from a dark corner, and identified me with a single gesture.
austen|The child of good fortune!
dickens|So, having come there against my inclination, I went on against it.
austen|She heard Patty announcing it; but no such bustle succeeded as poor Miss Bates had before made so happily intelligible.
dickens|Mr Pip?
austen|But you were humble.
austen|Kitty and me were to spend the day there, and Mrs Forster promised to have a little dance in the evening; by the bye, Mrs Forster and me are such friends!
austen|You shall have a charming wife.
dickens|Reins and whip and coachman and guard, however, in combination, had read that article of war which forbade a purpose otherwise strongly in favour of the argument, that some brute animals are endued with Reason; and the team had capitulated and returned to their duty.
dickens|Estella of where?
dickens|But I encouraged Joe at the time.
dickens|I should think I could, miss, said I, in a shy way.
dickens|Certain keys were hanging on the wall, to which he now added the gate key; and his patchworkcovered bed was in a little inner division or recess.
austen|Kitty stared at him, and Lydia exclaimed.
austen|Elizabeth, with a triumphant sensation, looked towards his friend.
austen|I have lately imagined that I saw symptoms of attachment between themcertain expressive looks, which I did not believe meant to be public.
austen|These recollections will not do at all.
dickens|Mr and Mrs Hubble might like to see you in your new genteel figure too, Pip, said Joe, industriously cutting his bread, with his cheese on it, in the palm of his left hand, and glancing at my untasted supper as if he thought of the time when we used to compare slices.
dickens|They let you off easily enough, sneered Drummle.
austen|And have you answered the letter?
austen|You must all spend your evening with us, said sheI positively must have you all come.
austen|Then turning to Mr Bennet, he offered himself as his antagonist at backgammon.
austen|Your sweetness and disinterestedness are really angelic; I do not know what to say to you.
austen|And for me to be afraid of walking alone!
austen|Who do you mean, my dear?
dickens|When I raised my eyes again, I found that he had been shrewdly looking at me all the time, and was doing so still.
dickens|It had an official look, however, and there was nothing merely ornamental to be seen.
dickens|When I first went into it, and, rather oppressed by its gloom, stood near the door looking about me, I saw her pass among the extinguished fires, and ascend some light iron stairs, and go out by a gallery high overhead, as if she were going out into the sky.
dickens|croaked Jacques Three, who had come close up.
austen|I have more than once observed to Lady Catherine, that her charming daughter seemed born to be a duchess, and that the most elevated rank, instead of giving her consequence, would be adorned by her.
dickens|Secondly.
dickens|As if they had any help for anybody in their absurd baskets!
dickens|No; because when I come in from the forge of a night, any one can see me turning to at it.
austen|Harriet could not long resist so delightful a persuasion.
dickens|Miss Pross had laid the child down on his own bed, and her head had gradually fallen on the pillow beside her pretty charge.
austen|They are destined for each other by the voice of every member of their respective houses; and what is to divide them?
dickens|Pumblechook was now addressing the landlord, and William!
dickens|The idea of its being you!
dickens|And yet, observing the strange law of contradiction which obtains in all such cases, the time was long, while it flamed by so fast.
dickens|The people in possession of the house had let them in at the gate, and they had rushed in to work at the grindstone; it had evidently been set up there for their purpose, as in a convenient and retired spot.
austen|You should not have done it, indeed you should not.
dickens|Hold then!
austen|Pardon me.
austen|Elizabeth, easy and unaffected, had been listened to with much more pleasure, though not playing half so well; and Mary, at the end of a long concerto, was glad to purchase praise and gratitude by Scotch and Irish airs, at the request of her younger sisters, who, with some of the Lucases, and two or three officers, joined eagerly in dancing at one end of the room.
dickens|I am glad of one thing, said Biddy, and that is, that you have felt you could give me your confidence, Pip.
austen|Emma was in no danger of forgetting.
austen|Two dances, unfortunately, were all that could be allowed.
dickens|As the sparks fell thick and bright about him, I could see his hands, and touches of his face, and could make out that he was seated and bending over the table; but nothing more.
dickens|Why, what do you make out that they done with their buttons then, Jack?
dickens|This is Mr Barleys breakfast for tomorrow, served out to be cooked.
dickens|And we were silent again until she spoke.
austen|Randalls is such a distance.
austen|And it is not merely the housethe grounds, I assure you, as far as I could observe, are strikingly like.
dickens|Wait a bit!
dickens|No.
austen|Frank Churchill comes as regularly into my mind!
austen|In the desperation of her feelings, she resolved on one effort more, and, turning to Elizabeth, said  Miss Eliza Bennet, let me persuade you to follow my example, and take a turn about the room.
dickens|I want to know how you are to be kept out of danger, how long you are going to stay, what projects you have.
austen|To yield readilyeasilyto the persuasion of a friend is no merit with you.
dickens|It was easier for Mr Lorry to look in at Tellsons, than to look out of Tellsons.
austen|But if you want to shew him any attention, my dear, ask him to come and dine with us some day.
austen|I do think it is the hardest thing in the world, that your estate should be entailed away from your own children; and I am sure, if I had been you, I should have tried long ago to do something or other about it.
dickens|On his taking the recorders,very like a little black flute that had just been played in the orchestra and handed out at the door,he was called upon unanimously for Rule Britannia.
austen|You think it a faithful portrait undoubtedly.
dickens|I feel that this will break my heart byandbye; but I will do my duty while I can, and when I leave her, God will raise up friends for her, as He did for me.
dickens|The trade signs and they were almost as many as the shops were, all, grim illustrations of Want.
austen|One should be sorry to see greater pride or refinement in the teacher of a school, Harriet.
austen|Oh, sister!
dickens|No, no, no.
austen|I could not allow myself to conceal that your sister had been in town three months last winter, that I had known it, and purposely kept it from him.
austen|Oh!
dickens|Still my position was a distinguished one, and I was not at all dissatisfied with it, until Fate threw me in the way of that unlimited miscreant, Trabbs boy.
austen|With some there was great joy at the sight of Frank Churchill; others took it very composedly; but there was a very general distress and disturbance on Miss Fairfaxs disappearance being explained.
dickens|Hurry, hurry!
austen|And he is a very clever boy, indeed.
dickens|When you began it  I began it, Miss Pross?
austen|Elizabeth had not before believed him quite equal to such assurance; but she sat down, resolving within herself to draw no limits in future to the impudence of an impudent man.
austen|I have a warm, unguarded temper, and I may have spoken my opinion of him, and to him, too freely.
dickens|His arms are swelled because of being bound so tight, his wooden shoes are large and clumsy, and he is lame.
dickens|Not above a mile, I reckon?
austen|asked Mrs Ford.
austen|I hope you do not retract what you then said.
austen|It convinced her that accident only could discover to Mr Bingley her sisters being in town.
dickens|he wound up, looking round the room and snapping his fingers once with a loud snap, blast you every one, from the judge in his wig, to the colonist a stirring up the dust, Ill show a better gentleman than the whole kit on you put together!
austen|are we to have the pleasure of a call from Mr Elton?
austen|Perhaps Miss Fairfax has never been staying here so long before.
austen|However little Mr Darcy might have liked such an address, he contented himself with coolly replying that he perceived no other alteration than her being rather tanned, no miraculous consequence of travelling in the summer.
dickens|What is it?
dickens|Tickle, tickle; Pickle, pickle!
austen|But vanity, not love, has been my folly.
dickens|True, I had no Avenger in my service now, but I was looked after by an inflammatory old female, assisted by an animated ragbag whom she called her niece, and to keep a room secret from them would be to invite curiosity and exaggeration.
austen|Of all houses in the kingdom Mrs Bragges is the one I would most wish to see you in.
dickens|Yes; I think you are very pretty.
austen|Certainly she had often, especially of late, thought his manners to herself unnecessarily gallant; but it had passed as his way, as a mere error of judgment, of knowledge, of taste, as one proof among others that he had not always lived in the best society, that with all the gentleness of his address, true elegance was sometimes wanting; but, till this very day, she had never, for an instant, suspected it to mean any thing but grateful respect to her as Harriets friend.
dickens|That he had left me at the forge,far from contented, yet, by comparison happy!
austen|Oh!
dickens|I must finish my record today.
dickens|It flashed upon Miss Prosss mind that the doors were all standing open, and would suggest the flight.
austen|I know there is such an idea with many people, but indeed it is quite a mistake, sir.
dickens|You will not swear, Mr Lorry, that he was not one of them?
dickens|Mr Lorry handed him a paper through the throng.
austen|I beg your pardon, replied Miss Bingley, turning away with a sneer.
austen|As for Jane, her anxiety under this suspense was, of course, more painful than Elizabeths, but whatever she felt she was desirous of concealing, and between herself and Elizabeth, therefore, the subject was never alluded to.
austen|Well, much good may it do them!
dickens|With a daughter?
dickens|He said this with the air of one carefully reckoning up and striking a balance.
austen|When that business was over, he applied to Miss Bingley and Elizabeth for an indulgence of some music.
dickens|Of course.
austen|I was sure it could not be far off; but I had put my huswife upon it, you see, without being aware, and so it was quite hid, but I had it in my hand so very lately that I was almost sure it must be on the table.
austen|See me, then, under these circumstances, arriving on my first visit to Randalls;and here I am conscious of wrong, for that visit might have been sooner paid.
dickens|One lacquey carried the chocolatepot into the sacred presence; a second, milled and frothed the chocolate with the little instrument he bore for that function; a third, presented the favoured napkin; a fourth he of the two gold watches, poured the chocolate out.
austen|Better than nearer!
austen|You mentioned it as what was certainly to be very soon.
austen|I have a great regard for Mr Perry.
dickens|Knitted, in her own stitches and her own symbols, it will always be as plain to her as the sun.
austen|too cheerful in my views to be captious.
dickens|Her hope had been, she said in great distress, to show her, in secret, a womans sympathy.
dickens|He practised on her affection in that systematic way, that he got great sums of money from her, and he induced her to buy her brother out of a share in the brewery which had been weakly left him by his father at an immense price, on the plea that when he was her husband he must hold and manage it all.
dickens|said Carton, wistfully.
austen|Our situation with regard to Lady Catherines family is indeed the sort of extraordinary advantage and blessing which few can boast.
dickens|We have new laws, Evremonde, and new offences, since you were here.
dickens|Now, Mr Jaggers showed that she had struggled through a great lot of brambles which were not as high as her face; but which she could not have got through and kept her hands out of; and bits of those brambles were actually found in her skin and put in evidence, as well as the fact that the brambles in question were found on examination to have been broken through, and to have little shreds of her dress and little spots of blood upon them here and there.
austen|I have no doubt.
austen|No invitation came amiss to her.
austen|Oh!
dickens|Yes, to be sure, said Wemmick.
dickens|At those times, I would decide conclusively that my disaffection to dear old Joe and the forge was gone, and that I was growing up in a fair way to be partners with Joe and to keep company with Biddy,when all in a moment some confounding remembrance of the Havisham days would fall upon me like a destructive missile, and scatter my wits again.
dickens|In the room over that, a little flabby terrier of a clerk with dangling hair his cropping seemed to have been forgotten when he was a puppy was similarly engaged with a man with weak eyes, whom Mr Wemmick presented to me as a smelter who kept his pot always boiling, and who would melt me anything I pleased,and who was in an excessive whiteperspiration, as if he had been trying his art on himself.
dickens|Darnay asked the postmaster, when he had thanked him, and stood beside him in the yard.
dickens|These were its contents   Prison of the Abbaye, Paris.
dickens|In short, I shouldnt greatly deceive you, Joe added, after a little grave reflection, if I represented to you that the word of that young woman were, without a minutes loss of time.
austen|On being made acquainted with the present Mr Darcys treatment of him, she tried to remember some of that gentlemans reputed disposition when quite a lad which might agree with it, and was confident at last that she recollected having heard Mr Fitzwilliam Darcy formerly spoken of as a very proud, illnatured boy.
austen|Shall we ask your cousin the reason of this?
dickens|you will always keep the name of Pip, you know.
austen|He bowed.
dickens|But, before we went to bed, I had resolved that I would wait over tomorrow,tomorrow being Sunday,and would begin my new course with the new week.
austen|He is going to Kingston.
austen|My dear Mr Bennet, said his lady to him one day, have you heard that Netherfield Park is let at last?
dickens|What time, the mailcoach lumbered, jolted, rattled, and bumped upon its tedious way, with its three fellowinscrutables inside.
dickens|The top.
austen|Had she intended ever to marry him, it might have been worth while to pause and consider, and try to understand the value of his preference, and the character of his temper; but for all the purposes of their acquaintance, he was quite amiable enough.
dickens|That, they never could lay their heads upon their pillows; that, they never could tolerate the idea of their wives laying their heads upon their pillows; that, they never could endure the notion of their children laying their heads upon their pillows; in short, that there never more could be, for them or theirs, any laying of heads upon pillows at all, unless the prisoners head was taken off.
austen|Go, and interfere.
dickens|said Madame Defarge, frowning.
dickens|I am as rickety as a hackneycoach, Im as sleepy as laudanum, my lines is strained to that degree that I shouldnt know, if it wasnt for the pain in em, which was me and which somebody else, yet Im none the better for it in pocket; and its my suspicion that youve been at it from morning to night to prevent me from being the better for it in pocket, and I wont put up with it, Aggerawayter, and what do you say now!
austen|I have said no such thing.
austen|His sisters were fine women, with an air of decided fashion.
dickens|Dont you be afeerd on it.
austen|I saw you first in February.
dickens|Ill go a little further with you; Ill say something more.
dickens|The turnkey stopped at a low door, put a key in a clashing lock, swung the door slowly open, and said, as they all bent their heads and passed in  One hundred and five, North Tower!
dickens|When I saw her again, an hour afterwards, she lay, indeed, where I had seen her strike her stick, and had heard her say that she would lie one day.
dickens|I know that lady, said Herbert, across the table, when the toast had been honored.
dickens|On seeing him, the miserable creature fell upon his shoulder, sobbing and crying, and pointing to the fountain, where some women were stooping over the motionless bundle, and moving gently about it.
dickens|You said something to me, said Doctor Manette, breaking into a smile.
austen|Emma was a good deal surprized; but begged her to speak.
dickens|I says to myself, Im making a better gentleman nor ever youll be!
dickens|The emphatic horse, cut short by the whip in a most decided negative, made a decided scramble for it, and the three other horses followed suit.
austen|He was struggling for the appearance of composure, and would not open his lips till he believed himself to have attained it.
dickens|So now lets look at you.
austen|There are undoubtedly many who could not say the same, but thanks to Lady Catherine de Bourgh, I am removed far beyond the necessity of regarding little matters.
dickens|At a certain Assembly Ball at Richmond there used to be Assembly Balls at most places then, where Estella had outshone all other beauties, this blundering Drummle so hung about her, and with so much toleration on her part, that I resolved to speak to her concerning him.
dickens|There was a suppertray after we got home at night, and I think we should all have enjoyed ourselves, but for a rather disagreeable domestic occurrence.
dickens|Of course it would be a great relief to me to ask you several questions, sir; but I remember your prohibition.
dickens|Quick!
austen|Janes curiosity did not appear of that absorbing nature as wholly to occupy her.
dickens|Still, in the same moment, I saw the face tilt backward with a white terror on it that I shall never forget, and heard a great cry on board the steamer, and a loud splash in the water, and felt the boat sink from under me.
dickens|In about a month after that, the Spiders time with Mr Pocket was up for good, and, to the great relief of all the house but Mrs Pocket, he went home to the family hole.
austen|Mrs Gardiner then rallied her niece on Wickhams desertion, and complimented her on bearing it so well.
dickens|Deep ditch, single drawbridge, massive stone walls, eight great towers, cannon, muskets, fire and smoke.
dickens|Regard it as a matter of businessbusiness that must be done.
austen|A second allusion, indeed, gave less pain.
austen|Good Heaven!
dickens|Where is my wife?
austen|I do assure you that the news does not affect me either with pleasure or pain.
austen|Shortly afterwards Miss Bates, passing near the window, descried Mr Knightley on horseback not far off.
austen|No, you shall send it to Hartfield, if you please.
dickens|This strongly marked way of doing business made a strongly marked impression on me, and that not of an agreeable kind.
dickens|Sullenly enough, the jackal loosened his dress, went into an adjoining room, and came back with a large jug of cold water, a basin, and a towel or two.
dickens|Madame Defarge was a stout woman of about his own age, with a watchful eye that seldom seemed to look at anything, a large hand heavily ringed, a steady face, strong features, and great composure of manner.
dickens|When I went to Lunnon town sirs,      Too rul loo rul      Too rul loo rul      Wasnt I done very brown sirs?
austen|I must speak to him if possible, just to thank him.
dickens|said Mr Jaggers.
austen|Selina, who is mild almost to a fault, bore with them much better.
austen|Oh, Charlotte says she hardly ever does.
austen|To interrupt a silence which might make him fancy her affected with what had passed, she soon afterwards said  I imagine your cousin brought you down with him chiefly for the sake of having someone at his disposal.
austen|From our relative situation, those attentions were her due, and were felt to be so.
dickens|I cant pretend that I do like them, and I suppose you dont particularly.
dickens|Is she dead?
dickens|murmured Madame Defarge, smiling to The Vengeance.
austen|He spoke of apprehension and anxiety, but his countenance expressed real security.
austen|No, I believe not.
austen|My total ignorance of the connection must plead my apology.
austen|They are to be put into Mr Westons stable, papa.
austen|She meant to be very happy, in spite of the scene being laid at Mr Coles; and without being able to forget that among the failings of Mr Elton, even in the days of his favour, none had disturbed her more than his propensity to dine with Mr Cole.
austen|Mr Darcy drew his chair a little towards her, and said, You cannot have a right to such very strong local attachment.
dickens|and no more.
dickens|I forgot them in the surprise of your visit, explained Monsieur Defarge.
dickens|I was conducted to this chamber straight, the cries growing louder as we ascended the stairs, and I found a patient in a high fever of the brain, lying on a bed.
austen|You are extremely obligingand if I were not an old married man.
dickens|indeed!
dickens|And so she presently said Joe again, and once Pardon, and once Pip.
austen|Let my fathers servant go with you.
dickens|I told you so.
dickens|And advancing?
austen|You know you could not.
dickens|Gargery is your master now.
dickens|Good evening, citizen, filling his glass.
austen|Your meaning must be unequivocal; no doubts or demurs and such expressions of gratitude and concern for the pain you are inflicting as propriety requires, will present themselves unbidden to your mind, I am persuaded.
austen|I shall be very glad to look it over, said he; but it seems long.
dickens|I went straight to Mr Pumblechooks, and was immensely relieved to find him not at home.
dickens|It was a curious place, indeed; but remarkably well kept and clean.
austen|Even pleasure, you know, is fatiguingand I cannot say that any of them seemed very much to have enjoyed it.
austen|Nothing could console and nothing could appease her.
austen|It was gratifying to have inspired unconsciously so strong an affection.
austen|To Mr John Knightley was she indebted for her first idea on the subject, for the first start of its possibility.
austen|Elizabeth, feeling it incumbent on her to relieve him from so unpleasant a situation, now put herself forward to confirm his account, by mentioning her prior knowledge of it from Charlotte herself; and endeavoured to put a stop to the exclamations of her mother and sisters by the earnestness of her congratulations to Sir William, in which she was readily joined by Jane, and by making a variety of remarks on the happiness that might be expected from the match, the excellent character of Mr Collins, and the convenient distance of Hunsford from London.
dickens|That he was a muscular man, strong on his legs, and that he was browned and hardened by exposure to weather.
dickens|Is he here?
austen|I told you, the other day, of his infamous behaviour to Mr Darcy; and you yourself, when last at Longbourn, heard in what manner he spoke of the man who had behaved with such forbearance and liberality towards him.
austen|She had talked her into love; but, alas!
austen|It does seem, and it is most shocking indeed, replied Elizabeth, with tears in her eyes, that a sisters sense of decency and virtue in such a point should admit of doubt.
austen|I am delighted to find myself in such a circle.
dickens|Hah!
dickens|In the hunted air of the people there was yet some wildbeast thought of the possibility of turning at bay.
dickens|You have seen both dolls and birds today, said Madame Defarge, with a wave of her hand towards the place where they had last been apparent; now, go home!
austen|I have no doubt of it.
dickens|The Ageds reading reminded me of the classes at Mr Wopsles greataunts, with the pleasanter peculiarity that it seemed to come through a keyhole.
dickens|Youre at it agin, are you?
austen|Mr Churchill had made a point of it, as a token of respect to the wife he had so very recently lost; and every body admitted it to be no more than due decorum.
austen|What do you think has happened this morning?
dickens|Was there ever such a fate!
dickens|Young man, said Pumblechook, screwing his head at me in the old fashion, you air a going to Joseph.
dickens|Evidently Biddy had taught Joe to write.
dickens|Our breakfast was as good as the supper, and at halfpast eight precisely we started for Little Britain.
dickens|Quite despairing of making my mind clear to Wemmick on this point, I forbore to try.
austen|yesbut how they were conveyed hither?
dickens|Then will you set about it at once, blacksmith?
dickens|And I had heard of the death of her husband, from an accident consequent on his illtreatment of a horse.
austen|What do you deserve?
dickens|Her handsome dress had trailed upon the ground.
dickens|Yes, said I, casting my eyes over the note, which was exactly in those terms.
austen|He seemed often observing her.
dickens|It is not probable he will arrive tonight; nevertheless, leave the table as it is.
austen|When did it happen before, or any thing like it?
austen|Me!
dickens|Keep still, you little devil, or Ill cut your throat!
dickens|Mr Drummle looked at me, and then at my boots, and then said, Oh!
austen|Mr Collins!
austen|Happily he was not farther from approving matrimony than from foreseeing it.
dickens|Anything to equal the determined reticence of Mr Jaggers under that roof I never saw elsewhere, even in him.
dickens|He tilted me again.
austen|I do suspect that he is not really necessary to my happiness.
austen|Is it true?
dickens|It was a thoughtful evening with both of us.
austen|Mr Bingley and Jane remained at Netherfield only a twelvemonth.
austen|He still loves me, and we are engaged.
dickens|We Britons had at that time particularly settled that it was treasonable to doubt our having and our being the best of everything otherwise, while I was scared by the immensity of London, I think I might have had some faint doubts whether it was not rather ugly, crooked, narrow, and dirty.
dickens|There was a neat little girl in attendance, who looked after the Aged in the day.
austen|That nature had given it in feature could not be unseen by the young woman, nor could her higher powers of mind be unfelt by the parents.
dickens|If you doubt it, ask Stryver, and hell tell you so.
dickens|He rubbed his eyes and roused himself; but he doubted, when he had done so, whether he was not still asleep.
dickens|But I, misled by the action, and confused by the occasion, shook hands with him with every testimony of warm affection.
austen|Mrs Collins will be very glad of your company, I am sure.
austen|Mr Bingley and Jane were standing together, a little detached from the rest, and talked only to each other.
austen|I think, indeed, said John Knightley pleasantly, that Mr Weston has some little claim.
austen|They would feel that they could trust him; that the nephew who had done rightly by his father, would do rightly by them; for they know, as well as he does, as well as all the world must know, that he ought to pay this visit to his father; and while meanly exerting their power to delay it, are in their hearts not thinking the better of him for submitting to their whims.
dickens|It was a bit of the art of an Old Bailey tactician, in which he found great relief.
austen|Quite a humourist.
austen|With no expectation of pleasure, but with the strongest curiosity, Elizabeth opened the letter, and, to her still increasing wonder, perceived an envelope containing two sheets of letterpaper, written quite through, in a very close hand.
dickens|There were traces of his gore in that spot, and I covered them with gardenmould from the eye of man.
dickens|I see her and her husband, their course done, lying side by side in their last earthly bed, and I know that each was not more honoured and held sacred in the others soul, than I was in the souls of both.
dickens|Imagine one selected day struck out of it, and think how different its course would have been.
dickens|He had not previously uttered a word.
dickens|But I knew well enough how to shoot the bridge after seeing it done, and so began to row about among the shipping in the Pool, and down to Erith.
austen|Some scruples and some reluctance the widowerfather may be supposed to have felt; but as they were overcome by other considerations, the child was given up to the care and the wealth of the Churchills, and he had only his own comfort to seek, and his own situation to improve as he could.
dickens|Well?
dickens|On this second day, Mr Lorry saluted him cheerfully by his name, and spoke to him on topics that had been of late familiar to them.
dickens|I wish you to know that you have been the last dream of my soul.
austen|And, in short, from knowing his usual ways, I am very much inclined to think that it was for their accommodation the carriage was used at all.
dickens|Do you hear?
dickens|Do you?
dickens|And I dont dine, because Im going to dine at the ladys.
austen|Yes, and her petticoat; I hope you saw her petticoat, six inches deep in mud, I am absolutely certain; and the gown which had been let down to hide it not doing its office.
dickens|They may be of the same blood, but, believe me, they are not of the same nature.
dickens|Have a little brandy, uncle, said my sister.
austen|She must be very lively, and have hazle eyes.
dickens|It is considered that you must be better educated, in accordance with your altered position, and that you will be alive to the importance and necessity of at once entering on that advantage.
dickens|Come!
dickens|What weakness is this, my dear!
austen|WINDSORJULY.
austen|Oh!
dickens|But, as the fingers went, the eyes went, and the thoughts.
austen|really, never!
austen|I give you noticeYou will find me a formidable antagonist on that point.
dickens|It gave me a terrible turn when I thought so; and as I saw the cattle lifting their heads to gaze after him, I wondered whether they thought so too.
dickens|I cry with vexation and disappointment!
dickens|I saw in this, a reason for her being beforehand assigned to me.
dickens|I felt as if, having been burnt before, it were now being boiled.
austen|Who but herself had taught her, that she was to elevate herself if possible, and that her claims were great to a high worldly establishment?
dickens|The last I saw of him, his head was bent over his knee and he was working hard at his fetter, muttering impatient imprecations at it and at his leg.
dickens|Suddenly, he clapped his large hand on the housekeepers, like a trap, as she stretched it across the table.
austen|Yes; my father is to join me here we shall walk back together, and I must be off immediately.
dickens|There I was, on Joes back, and there was Joe beneath me, charging at the ditches like a hunter, and stimulating Mr Wopsle not to tumble on his Roman nose, and to keep up with us.
dickens|My sister made a dive at me, and fished me up by the hair, saying nothing more than the awful words, You come along and be dosed.
dickens|Anything that I had seen in Miss Havisham?
austen|Mrs Cole was telling that she had been calling on Miss Bates, and as soon as she entered the room had been struck by the sight of a pianofortea very elegant looking instrumentnot a grand, but a largesized square pianoforte; and the substance of the story, the end of all the dialogue which ensued of surprize, and inquiry, and congratulations on her side, and explanations on Miss Batess, was, that this pianoforte had arrived from Broadwoods the day before, to the great astonishment of both aunt and nieceentirely unexpected; that at first, by Miss Batess account, Jane herself was quite at a loss, quite bewildered to think who could possibly have ordered itbut now, they were both perfectly satisfied that it could be from only one quarter;of course it must be from Colonel Campbell.
austen|Elizabeth looked expressively at Lydia; but she, who never heard nor saw anything of which she chose to be insensible, gaily continued, Oh!
austen|And I am not only, not going to be married, at present, but have very little intention of ever marrying at all.
dickens|Added to that, he had a blockhead confidence in his money and in his family greatness, which sometimes did him good service,almost taking the place of concentration and determined purpose.
dickens|How the evidence that had been warped and wrested from the young lady, whose anguish in giving it they had witnessed, came to nothing, involving the mere little innocent gallantries and politenesses likely to pass between any young gentleman and young lady so thrown together;with the exception of that reference to George Washington, which was altogether too extravagant and impossible to be regarded in any other light than as a monstrous joke.
dickens|You see?
dickens|I really believe Joe would have prolonged this word mightily expressive to my mind of some architecture that I know into a perfect Chorus, but for his attention being providentially attracted by his hat, which was toppling.
austen|This, though very undesirable, would be no matter of agony to her.
dickens|Yes, dear Joe, steadily.
dickens|They all reverently bowed their heads and hearts.
austen|Much as I respect them, I believe I thought only of you.
dickens|He was in no uneasiness concerning his getting into the house again, for it was full of lodgers, and the door stood ajar all night.
austen|Oh!
dickens|Early in the morning I was to go.
dickens|Something to that effect was said by the intoxicated liar who committed the assault, but it was not true.
austen|I leave you to your own reflections.
austen|But I was embarrassed.
austen|At present, however, I consider myself as quite fixed here.
austen|observed Mrs Bennet.
austen|I am advised to be out of doors as much as I can, I must walk somewhere, and the postoffice is an object; and upon my word, I have scarcely ever had a bad morning before.
dickens|I heard the mice too, rattling behind the panels, as if the same occurrence were important to their interests.
dickens|Only the subject we were speaking of, said I, was rather painful to me.
austen|Sir, you are most kind.
dickens|With the tears streaming down her face, she put her two hands to her lips, and kissed them to him; then clasped them on her breast, as if she laid his ruined head there.
dickens|He wont come back tomorrow; will he?
dickens|said the sergeant, addressing himself to Mr Pumblechook, as to a man whose appreciative powers justified the inference that he was equal to the time.
dickens|I didnt say so, Pip.
austen|Before the middle of the next day, he was at Hartfield; and he entered the room with such an agreeable smile as certified the continuance of the scheme.
austen|You are very kind to bring me these interesting particulars.
austen|Mr Westons own happiness was indisputable.
dickens|, was satisfied that no plainer case could be.
austen|I wish I could see her.
dickens|Babies are to be nutcrackered dead, for peoples poor grandpapas positions!
austen|Ah!
austen|His ideas seemed more moderatehis feelings warmer.
austen|that is, noI do not knowbut I believe he has read a good dealbut not what you would think any thing of.
dickens|But as she grew, and promised to be very beautiful, I gradually did worse, and with my praises, and with my jewels, and with my teachings, and with this figure of myself always before her, a warning to back and point my lessons, I stole her heart away, and put ice in its place.
austen|You know not, you can scarcely conceive, how they have tortured me;though it was some time, I confess, before I was reasonable enough to allow their justice.
austen|I send no compliments to your mother.
dickens|Till youre a gentleman, said Biddy.
austen|I am, said he, with a firm voice.
dickens|You are one of those, Biddy, said I, who make the most of every chance.
austen|He then asked her to walk into the housebut she declared herself not tired, and they stood together on the lawn.
dickens|The rattle of the harness was the chink of money, and more drafts were honoured in five minutes than even Tellsons, with all its foreign and home connection, ever paid in thrice the time.
dickens|Why stop?
austen|Mr Woodhouses peculiarities and fidgetiness were sometimes provoking him to a rational remonstrance or sharp retort equally illbestowed.
austen|Elizabeth said nothing, but it gratified her exceedingly; the compliment must be all for herself.
austen|As her successor in that house, she regarded her with jealous abhorrence.
dickens|Do you take tea, or coffee, Mr Gargery?
dickens|She laughed again, and even now when she had told me why, her laughter was very singular to me, for I could not doubt its being genuine, and yet it seemed too much for the occasion.
dickens|But they were both happily relieved by the opportune appearance of Mike, the client with the fur cap and the habit of wiping his nose on his sleeve, whom I had seen on the very first day of my appearance within those walls.
austen|It was reasonable that he should feel he had been wrong; he had liberality, and he had the means of exercising it; and though she would not place herself as his principal inducement, she could, perhaps, believe that remaining partiality for her might assist his endeavours in a cause where her peace of mind must be materially concerned.
dickens|And you are looking forward with so much pleasure to seeing him once more tomorrow!
dickens|He had had it conveyed to him, in an accidental touch of his wifes elbow as she knitted and warbled, that he would do best to answer, but always with brevity.
austen|Mr Knightley and Harriet!
austen|No, if he had believed me at all to share his feelings, he would not have been so wretched.
dickens|My memory is circumstantial and unshaken.
dickens|What do you mean?
austen|You and Mr Elton are by situation called together; you belong to one another by every circumstance of your respective homes.
austen|It was absolutely necessary, therefore, to think of something, and in this emergence recollecting when she had seen him last in Hertfordshire, and feeling curious to know what he would say on the subject of their hasty departure, she observed  How very suddenly you all quitted Netherfield last November, Mr Darcy!
dickens|Open the blinds.
dickens|I hold you till one or other of us faints or dies!
dickens|Five days, six days, seven days, eight days, nine days.
dickens|Which you have that growed, said Joe, and that swelled, and that gentlefolked; Joe considered a little before he discovered this word; as to be sure you are a honor to your king and country.
dickens|Todo you mean to the young fellow whos in it?
austen|Jane Fairfax was an orphan, the only child of Mrs Batess youngest daughter.
austen|Emma was not thinking of it at the moment, which made the information she received more valuable.
dickens|A fouroared galley hovering about in so unusual a way as to attract this notice was an ugly circumstance that I could not get rid of.
austen|This is precisely what I wanted.
dickens|Them were her words; Mrs J.
dickens|said I, pressing him, for I thought I saw him near a loophole here; but would that be your opinion at Walworth?
dickens|money no object!
austen|In a few minutes the carriage returned.
dickens|I have them both here, of a certainty; and they are both here for their merits; that is enough.
dickens|Do you know this?
dickens|Other seven faces there were, carried higher, seven dead faces, whose drooping eyelids and halfseen eyes awaited the Last Day.
dickens|The Boar could not put me into my usual bedroom, which was engaged probably by some one who had expectations, and could only assign me a very indifferent chamber among the pigeons and postchaises up the yard.
dickens|Another darkness was closing in as surely, when the church bells, then ringing pleasantly in many an airy steeple over France, should be melted into thundering cannon; when the military drums should be beating to drown a wretched voice, that night all potent as the voice of Power and Plenty, Freedom and Life.
austen|She attracted him more than he likedand Miss Bingley was uncivil to her, and more teasing than usual to himself.
dickens|Upon which Mrs Pocket received me with an appearance of amiable dignity.
dickens|But they have found him alive, hiding in the country, and have brought him in.
austen|Is it possible?
dickens|Well!
austen|It has hurt his father equally.
dickens|Hold the light higher!
dickens|As I sat down, and he preserved his attitude and bent his brows at his boots, I felt at a disadvantage, which reminded me of that old time when I had been put upon a tombstone.
dickens|Not remember that you made me cry?
dickens|Of what trade?
austen|Mr Darcy, with grave propriety, requested to be allowed the honour of her hand, but in vain.
austen|Perry does not call it altogether a sickly season.
dickens|I remonstrated, for he made no reply at all.
dickens|Dont you expect to see him?
austen|One ought to be at Enscombe, and know the ways of the family, before one decides upon what he can do, replied Mrs Weston.
dickens|He knowed that finger when he saw Joseph, and he saw it plain.
austen|In vain did she entreat him to stand up with somebody else, and offer to introduce him to any young lady in the room.
dickens|Estella, take him down.
dickens|As I watched them while they all stood clustering about the forge, enjoying themselves so much, I thought what terrible good sauce for a dinner my fugitive friend on the marshes was.
austen|But from the severity of that blame which was last night so liberally bestowed, respecting each circumstance, I shall hope to be in the future secured, when the following account of my actions and their motives has been read.
dickens|The waiter it was he who had brought up the Great Remonstrance from the Commercials, on the day when I was bound appeared surprised, and took the earliest opportunity of putting a dirty old copy of a local newspaper so directly in my way, that I took it up and read this paragraph  Our readers will learn, not altogether without interest, in reference to the recent romantic rise in fortune of a young artificer in iron of this neighborhood what a theme, by the way, for the magic pen of our as yet not universally acknowledged townsman TOOBY, the poet of our columns!
austen|Elizabeth impatiently caught it from his hand.
austen|This must not be.
austen|You banished to AbbeyMill Farm!
dickens|I told him that, without deep trimmings, the family was disgraced.
austen|Were I to fall in love, indeed, it would be a different thing!
austen|The pertinacity of her friend seemed more than she could bear.
dickens|I aint brought her in  He looked about him in a confused way, as if he had lost his place in the book of his remembrance; and he turned his face to the fire, and spread his hands broader on his knees, and lifted them off and put them on again.
austen|Emma could not but feel all this; and then, her faceher featuresthere was more beauty in them altogether than she had remembered; it was not regular, but it was very pleasing beauty.
dickens|Do me the favor to be seated, sir.
dickens|We stood in the Inn Yard while she pointed out her luggage to me, and when it was all collected I rememberedhaving forgotten everything but herself in the meanwhilethat I knew nothing of her destination.
dickens|Mrs Hubble shook her head, and contemplating me with a mournful presentiment that I should come to no good, asked, Why is it that the young are never grateful?
dickens|Twentytwo friends of high public mark, twentyone living and one dead, it had lopped the heads off, in one morning, in as many minutes.
austen|She thought he neither looked nor spoke cheerfully; and the first possible cause for it, suggested by her fears, was, that he had perhaps been communicating his plans to his brother, and was pained by the manner in which they had been received.
austen|Mr Knightley and Harriet had arrived during her absence, and were sitting with her father.
austen|Chuse your own degree of crossness.
austen|Let me order the carriage.
austen|, who, instantly taking the alarm, set off from B.
austen|But what, said she, after a pause, can have been his motive?
dickens|I sometimes have sick fancies, she went on, and I have a sick fancy that I want to see some play.
dickens|He knew more of my intended career than I knew myself, for he referred to his having been told by Mr Jaggers that I was not designed for any profession, and that I should be well enough educated for my destiny if I could hold my own with the average of young men in prosperous circumstances.
dickens|He was a mild, goodnatured, sweettempered, easygoing, foolish, dear fellow,a sort of Hercules in strength, and also in weakness.
dickens|She had no time to lose, but must get ready at once.
austen|Mrs Weston and Emma were sitting together on a sofa.
dickens|She looked at Sarah Pocket with triumph in her weird eyes, and so I left my fairy godmother, with both her hands on her crutch stick, standing in the midst of the dimly lighted room beside the rotten bridecake that was hidden in cobwebs.
dickens|Here comes the mare, said Joe, ringing like a peal of bells!
dickens|The hours between this and tomorrow afternoon are few and short, but try.
dickens|His shop was shut and he was not there, which was a relief to Lucie, and left her quite alone.
dickens|Still, said Darnay, you know how gloomy and threatening the sky is.
dickens|Is that horse of mine ready?
austen|Harriet certainly was not clever, but she had a sweet, docile, grateful disposition, was totally free from conceit, and only desiring to be guided by any one she looked up to.
dickens|Now, in groping my way down the black staircase I fell over something, and that something was a man crouching in a corner.
dickens|Thats it, Pip, said Joe; and they took his till, and they took his cashbox, and they drinked his wine, and they partook of his wittles, and they slapped his face, and they pulled his nose, and they tied him up to his bedpust, and they giv him a dozen, and they stuffed his mouth full of flowering annuals to prewent his crying out.
austen|Emma was delighted, and only wanted him to go on in the same style; but his mind was the next moment in his own concerns and with his own Jane, and his next words were,  Did you ever see such a skin?
dickens|It is all I could do, said Carton.
dickens|Carton still had his hand in his breast.
dickens|Youll understand that better, when I tell you its a question that might compromise me.
austen|The evening was spent chiefly in talking over Hertfordshire news, and telling again what had already been written; and when it closed, Elizabeth, in the solitude of her chamber, had to meditate upon Charlottes degree of contentment, to understand her address in guiding, and composure in bearing with, her husband, and to acknowledge that it was all done very well.
austen|Was it a musical society?
dickens|I say to you, Sir, you air a going to Joseph.
austen|She does seem a charming young woman, just what he deserves.
austen|A week tomorrow!
austen|Interested people have perhaps misrepresented each to the other.
dickens|You are a man of business, too.
dickens|I came here to take leave of it before its change.
austen|What is his name?
dickens|I was quite as dejected on the first workingday of my apprenticeship as in that aftertime; but I am glad to know that I never breathed a murmur to Joe while my indentures lasted.
austen|What I have to say relates to poor Lydia.
dickens|Yet I did not, and for the reason that I mistrusted that if I did, he would think me worse than I was.
dickens|It had taken a deal of extra wettowelling to pull him through the night; a correspondingly extra quantity of wine had preceded the towelling; and he was in a very damaged condition, as he now pulled his turban off and threw it into the basin in which he had steeped it at intervals for the last six hours.
dickens|In a word, I was too cowardly to do what I knew to be right, as I had been too cowardly to avoid doing what I knew to be wrong.
dickens|This I did next day, through Herbert, as soon as I returned to town.
dickens|Estella asked me.
dickens|There, Monseigneur turned, and came back again, and so in due course of time got himself shut up in his sanctuary by the chocolate sprites, and was seen no more.
dickens|O dearest Charles, let me thank God for this on my knees as I have prayed to Him.
dickens|But it was by no means so plain to Mr Provis I resolved to call him by that name, who reserved his consent to Herberts participation until he should have seen him and formed a favorable judgment of his physiognomy.
austen|Let them triumph over us at a distance, and be satisfied.
austen|Her mind was divided between two ideasher own former conversations with him about Miss Fairfax; and poor Harriet;and for some time she could only exclaim, and require confirmation, repeated confirmation.
austen|I dream of every body at Highbury when I am awayand when I have gone through my particular friends, then I begin dreaming of Mr and Mrs Perry.
austen|He was full of joy and attention.
austen|Perhaps this concealment, this disguise was beneath me; it is done, however, and it was done for the best.
dickens|After our early dinner, I strolled out alone, purposing to finish off the marshes at once, and get them done with.
dickens|Ah!
austen|This charade!
austen|But there was still something lurking behind, of which prudence forbade the disclosure.
austen|I know he would be hurt by my failing in such a mark of respect to him on the present occasion.
austen|Elizabeth, however, did not choose to take the hint, being well aware that a serious dispute must be the consequence of any reply.
dickens|He was committed to take his trial at the next Sessions, which would come on in a month.
dickens|Was anybody else there?
dickens|But it was very pleasant to see the pride with which he hoisted it up and made it fast; smiling as he did so, with a relish and not merely mechanically.
austen|The sanguine hope of good, however, which the benevolence of her heart suggested had not yet deserted her; she still expected that it would all end well, and that every morning would bring some letter, either from Lydia or her father, to explain their proceedings, and, perhaps, announce their marriage.
dickens|cried Mr Trabb at this point, in a depressed businesslike voice.
austen|You may have drawn him in.
dickens|I mistrusted a design to entrap me into some admission.
dickens|Ive seen him.
austen|But Mr Elton had only drunk wine enough to elevate his spirits, not at all to confuse his intellects.
dickens|She had become familiar to me, when a gracious God restored my faculties; but, I am quite unable even to say how she had become familiar.
dickens|When it was not too wet or inclement for her child to be with her, they went together; at other times she was alone; but, she never missed a single day.
austen|A week had not passed since Miss Hawkinss name was first mentioned in Highbury, before she was, by some means or other, discovered to have every recommendation of person and mind; to be handsome, elegant, highly accomplished, and perfectly amiable and when Mr Elton himself arrived to triumph in his happy prospects, and circulate the fame of her merits, there was very little more for him to do, than to tell her Christian name, and say whose music she principally played.
austen|And they are really to be married!
austen|He is just as superior as ever;but being married, you know, it is quite a different thing.
dickens|From the time of our alighting at the outer gate which we found locked, and which one of the brothers had opened to admit us, and had relocked, I had heard cries proceeding from an upper chamber.
dickens|Ant you?
dickens|Then, and after that, I took it.
dickens|Wemmick looked very serious.
austen|She must understand you.
dickens|He had asked the prisoner, aboard the Calais packet, if he wanted a handy fellow, and the prisoner had engaged him.
dickens|There is prodigious strength, I answered him, in sorrow and despair.
dickens|It had passed through my thoughts to cry out for help again; though few could know better than I, the solitary nature of the spot, and the hopelessness of aid.
dickens|I see the lives for which I lay down my life, peaceful, useful, prosperous and happy, in that England which I shall see no more.
austen|I have a great regard for you and Emma; but when it comes to the question of dependence or independence!
dickens|I should have written if I had thought that.
dickens|Where is the loft window?
austen|I ought to travel.
dickens|Have I had nothing more important to remember, in the great service you rendered me that day?
austen|Mr Bennet made no answer, and each of them, deep in thought, continued silent till they reached the house.
dickens|Oh dear no.
dickens|and blew his nose with an air of satisfaction.
austen|They had received her doubtingly, if not coolly; and nothing beyond the merest commonplace had been talked almost all the timetill just at last, when Mrs Martins saying, all of a sudden, that she thought Miss Smith was grown, had brought on a more interesting subject, and a warmer manner.
dickens|She maynt have knowd, added Joe, with an appearance of reflection, whether it were Joe, or Jorge.
dickens|I am pretty well, I thank you, answered Mr Lorry, with meekness; how are you?
austen|But what does he say of the living?
austen|If meant to be immediately mixed with the others, and buried from sight, she should have looked on the table instead of looking just across, for it was not mixed; and Harriet, eager after every fresh word, and finding out none, directly took it up, and fell to work.
dickens|Pledge me to the pretty witness, said Stryver, holding up his glass.
dickens|And then, Take the pencil and write under my name, I forgive her!
austen|He had done it.
austen|It is every way horrible!
dickens|It were amost the only hammering he did, indeed, xcepting at myself.
dickens|That I do so is no subject for regret or grief.
dickens|If you are grateful to me for what I did when I was a little child, I hope you have shown your gratitude by mending your way of life.
dickens|said she, assenting with her head, but not looking at me.
dickens|She had her back towards me, and held her pretty brown hair spread out in her two hands, and never looked round, and passed out of my view directly.
dickens|asked Mrs Joe.
dickens|Youve been lying out on the meshes, and theyre dreadful aguish.
dickens|I called out, looking down.
austen|It mortifies me.
austen|It is impossible to express our surprize.
austen|He must think himself a most agreeable fellow; I could not do such a thing.
austen|Or, in other words, you are determined to have him.
austen|Exceedingly well.
dickens|What have they done with my work?
austen|But poor Harriet could not follow.
dickens|said she.
dickens|You had better, Lucie, said Mr Lorry, doing all he could to propitiate, by tone and manner, have the dear child here, and our good Pross.
dickens|And Joe, how smart you are!
austen|But if he returns no more this winter, my choice will never be required.
dickens|My sisters bringing up had made me sensitive.
austen|I am very glad you did, and that you communicated it to me.
dickens|I think for you; thats enough for you.
austen|Emma then felt it indispensable to wish him a good night.
dickens|You hate the fellow.
dickens|Other company were there two playing cards, two playing dominoes, three standing by the counter lengthening out a short supply of wine.
austen|At present I will say nothing about it.
austen|would they often exclaim in the bitterness of woe.
dickens|Another carriage having already gone from here today, it might awaken suspicion.
austen|To a Mrs Smallridgecharming womanmost superiorto have the charge of her three little girlsdelightful children.
dickens|Now, breaking the unnatural silence of a whole city, the executioner showed the people the head of the kingand now, it seemed almost in the same breath, the head of his fair wife which had had eight weary months of imprisoned widowhood and misery, to turn it grey.
dickens|Hi!
dickens|Without doubt.
austen|Receive it on my judgment.
dickens|I had to pass through that part, to get at the other.
dickens|Pray dont do it, sir.
dickens|I wanted to make Joe less ignorant and common, that he might be worthier of my society and less open to Estellas reproach.
dickens|I followed next to her, and Joe came last.
dickens|Ill put a case to you.
austen|Just like her!
dickens|The most prominent object was a long table with a tablecloth spread on it, as if a feast had been in preparation when the house and the clocks all stopped together.
dickens|I thanked him, and apologized.
austen|After sitting in this manner a quarter of an hour without hearing Miss Bingleys voice, Elizabeth was roused by receiving from her a cold inquiry after the health of her family.
dickens|No; the office is one thing, and private life is another.
dickens|We came to Richmond all too soon, and our destination there was a house by the green,a staid old house, where hoops and powder and patches, embroidered coats, rolled stockings, ruffles and swords, had had their court days many a time.
austen|It must have been from attachment only, that she could be led to form the engagement.
dickens|There was a small, heavilygrated, unglazed window high in the wall, with a stone screen before it, so that the sky could be only seen by stooping low and looking up.
austen|Give me the paper and listen.
dickens|You have been crying till you are half blind, and you are near crying again now.
austen|Imagine our surprise.
dickens|My father!
dickens|With a menacing look at the turnkey he crawled upon the hearth, and, peering up the chimney, struck and prised at its sides with the crowbar, and worked at the iron grating across it.
dickens|Will you try?
austen|The pause was to Elizabeths feelings dreadful.
austen|Kitty is slight and delicate; and Mary studies so much, that her hours of repose should not be broken in on.
dickens|A handsome mincepie had been made yesterday morning which accounted for the mincemeat not being missed, and the pudding was already on the boil.
austen|Like him, she had tried the scheme and rejected it; but such an alternative as this had not occurred to her.
austen|Harriet did think him all perfection, and maintained the nonexistence of any body equal to him in person or goodnessand did, in truth, prove herself more resolutely in love than Emma had foreseen; but yet it appeared to her so natural, so inevitable to strive against an inclination of that sort unrequited, that she could not comprehend its continuing very long in equal force.
dickens|Look among those fragments with care, Jacques.
dickens|It was impossible to try him for that, and do otherwise than find him guilty.
austen|My brother and sister will be enchanted with this place.
dickens|Then be so kind, urged Miss Manette, as to leave us here.
austen|Their society can afford no pleasure that will atone for such wretchedness as this!
dickens|Dont try on useless measures.
dickens|It is Havisham.
austen|Yes, Friday or Saturday; she cannot say which, because Colonel Campbell will be wanting the carriage himself one of those days.
austen|This event had at last been despaired of, but it was then too late to be saving.
austen|Mrs Bennet was restored to her usual querulous serenity; and, by the middle of June, Kitty was so much recovered as to be able to enter Meryton without tears; an event of such happy promise as to make Elizabeth hope that by the following Christmas she might be so tolerably reasonable as not to mention an officer above once a day, unless, by some cruel and malicious arrangement at the War Office, another regiment should be quartered in Meryton.
dickens|Fear not!
dickens|Not in the least like it, said Drummle.
dickens|asked the man he had spoken with.
dickens|He sat astride of the chair when he had pushed the money over, and sat swinging his purse and eyeing Joe.
dickens|Good God!
dickens|More than that, said he, folding his arms on the table again, I wont have a rag of you, I wont have a bone of you, left on earth.
dickens|said Stryver, with a plump of his fist on the desk.
austen|That Mr and Mrs Weston did think of it, she was very strongly persuaded; and though not meaning to be induced by him, or by any body else, to give up a situation which she believed more replete with good than any she could change it for, she had a great curiosity to see him, a decided intention of finding him pleasant, of being liked by him to a certain degree, and a sort of pleasure in the idea of their being coupled in their friends imaginations.
dickens|Were it yesterday afternoon?
austen|She assured him that no one intended to play, and the silence of the whole party on the subject seemed to justify her.
austen|But you will come again, said Emma.
dickens|Why, nno; not to me.
austen|Lizzy is not a bit better than the others; and I am sure she is not half so handsome as Jane, nor half so goodhumoured as Lydia.
dickens|You are the fellow we want, said Defarge, in his ear; you make these fools believe that it will last for ever.
austen|Yes, papa, it is written out in our second page.
austen|He has not been here yet, replied Emma.
dickens|Instead of being transfixed, Herbert replied in an easy matterofcourse way, Exactly.
dickens|Indeed!
austen|I must not, however, neglect the duties of my station, or refrain from declaring my amazement at hearing that you received the young couple into your house as soon as they were married.
austen|Look at my shoes.
austen|I was sitting near the doorElizabeth saw me directly; but he did not; he was busy with the umbrella.
dickens|There, sir!
austen|His principal object must be to discover the number of the hackney coach which took them from Clapham.
austen|I doubt it.
dickens|In our alreadymentioned freemasonry as fellowsufferers, and in his goodnatured companionship with me, it was our evening habit to compare the way we bit through our slices, by silently holding them up to each others admiration now and then,which stimulated us to new exertions.
austen|I saw you the other day as you rode through the townMrs Otway, I protest!
austen|Sighs and fine words had been given in abundance; but she could hardly devise any set of expressions, or fancy any tone of voice, less allied with real love.
austen|I dare say she did not understand me.
austen|You must, therefore, pardon the freedom with which I demand your attention; your feelings, I know, will bestow it unwillingly, but I demand it of your justice.
dickens|She had laid her head upon my shoulder, that night when I was summoned outshe had a fear of my going, though I had noneand when I was brought to the North Tower they found these upon my sleeve.
austen|She liked his open manners, but a little less of openheartedness would have made him a higher character.
austen|So very kind and obliging!
austen|But how sad it is that he should not live at home with his father!
dickens|Why, man alive, she was the admiration of the whole Court!
dickens|We are beginning to hold our own, I think, Mum?
dickens|If I had loved him instead of abhorring him; if I had been attracted to him by the strongest admiration and affection, instead of shrinking from him with the strongest repugnance; it could have been no worse.
dickens|If I go to Mr Lorrys at nine, shall I hear what you have done, either from our friend or from yourself?
dickens|We had left Barnards Inn more than a year, and lived in the Temple.
dickens|I see you there a many times, as plain as ever I see you on them misty marshes.
dickens|Fashion of speech again!
austen|You are right.
dickens|What did you say?
dickens|The more I thought of the fight, and recalled the pale young gentleman on his back in various stages of puffy and incrimsoned countenance, the more certain it appeared that something would be done to me.
austen|We had better move on, Mr Weston, said she, we are detaining the girls.
dickens|Within a few minutes, Miss Pross stood whispering at his side.
dickens|If your business necessitated your seeing the House, you were put into a species of Condemned Hold at the back, where you meditated on a misspent life, until the House came with its hands in its pockets, and you could hardly blink at it in the dismal twilight.
austen|You were very popular before you came, because you were Mr Westons sonbut lay out half a guinea at Fords, and your popularity will stand upon your own virtues.
dickens|They had been there ever since I could remember, and had grown more than I had.
dickens|Be that as it may, he had directed Mrs Pocket to be brought up from her cradle as one who in the nature of things must marry a title, and who was to be guarded from the acquisition of plebeian domestic knowledge.
dickens|Well!
dickens|Your reputation is high, and, as a young man with your fortune to make, you are probably mindful of your interest.
dickens|After several times falling short of my destination and as often overshooting it, I came unexpectedly round a corner, upon Mill Pond Bank.
dickens|In the meanwhile, the Doctor had removed to the seat in the window, and had sat there looking down at the planetree; but, on Mr Lorrys return, he slipped away to his bench.
austen|She is the natural daughter of nobody knows whom, with probably no settled provision at all, and certainly no respectable relations.
dickens|Gargery.
dickens|she cried suddenly, turning herself and her chair towards me, You are looking round for Estella?
austen|She could not enter on it.
dickens|The watchman made more light of the matter than I did, and naturally; not having my reason for attaching weight to it.
dickens|He opened it, and exclaimed, Thank God!
dickens|As I saw him go, picking his way among the nettles, and among the brambles that bound the green mounds, he looked in my young eyes as if he were eluding the hands of the dead people, stretching up cautiously out of their graves, to get a twist upon his ankle and pull him in.
dickens|Why I was trying to pack mine into my tumbler, I am wholly unable to say.
austen|There was no immediate appearance.
dickens|Good again!
dickens|But his greatest trials were in the churchyard, which had the appearance of a primeval forest, with a kind of small ecclesiastical washhouse on one side, and a turnpike gate on the other.
dickens|No more low, wet grounds, no more dikes and sluices, no more of these grazing cattle,though they seemed, in their dull manner, to wear a more respectful air now, and to face round, in order that they might stare as long as possible at the possessor of such great expectations,farewell, monotonous acquaintances of my childhood, henceforth I was for London and greatness; not for smiths work in general, and for you!
austen|Miss Bates would hardly give Emma time to say how perfectly new this circumstance was to her; but as without supposing it possible that she could be ignorant of any of the particulars of Mr Frank Churchills going, she proceeded to give them all, it was of no consequence.
dickens|Herbert was my intimate companion and friend.
austen|There is one thing, Emma, which a man can always do, if he chuses, and that is, his duty; not by manoeuvring and finessing, but by vigour and resolution.
austen|What are we to do?
dickens|Of course, as an honest man, you will expect no other and no more.
dickens|No business of anybodys.
austen|Never had she been more surprized, seldom more delighted, than at that instant.
dickens|Of late, the neglected bed in the Temple Court had known him more scantily than ever; and often when he had thrown himself upon it no longer than a few minutes, he had got up again, and haunted that neighbourhood.
dickens|I am a disappointed drudge, sir.
dickens|I wont offer an apology, said Wemmick, for he isnt capable of many pleasuresare you, Aged P.
dickens|Good morning, sir, much obliged.
austen|with many other relative questions, all answered with patient politeness.
dickens|Mr Pip.
austen|If it be not so, let Mr Darcy contradict it.
dickens|Advocate.
dickens|No games tomorrow!
austen|Mr Suckling, who has been eleven years a resident at Maple Grove, and whose father had it before himI believe, at leastI am almost sure that old Mr Suckling had completed the purchase before his death.
austen|Here ceased the concert part of the evening, for Miss Woodhouse and Miss Fairfax were the only young lady performers; but soon within five minutes the proposal of dancingoriginating nobody exactly knew wherewas so effectually promoted by Mr and Mrs Cole, that every thing was rapidly clearing away, to give proper space.
dickens|I think he was a species of purser.
austen|There was time only for the quickest arrangement of mind.
austen|The gentlemen arrived early; and, before Mrs Bennet had time to tell him of their having seen his aunt, of which her daughter sat in momentary dread, Bingley, who wanted to be alone with Jane, proposed their all walking out.
austen|But papa is so disagreeable.
dickens|She was most noticeable, I thought, in respect of her extremities; for, her hair always wanted brushing, her hands always wanted washing, and her shoes always wanted mending and pulling up at heel.
dickens|Yes!
dickens|There is no doubt you do, said I, something hurriedly, for I have seen you give him looks and smiles this very night, such as you never give tome.
austen|Mr Knightley and Harriet Smith!
austen|Had his first appearance, or his resemblance to the picture they had just been examining, been insufficient to assure the other two that they now saw Mr Darcy, the gardeners expression of surprise, on beholding his master, must immediately have told it.
dickens|Herberts representations that, if I did, I should probably be laid up and stricken useless, when our fugitives safety would depend upon me, alone restrained my impatience.
dickens|By that time, I was staggering on the kitchen floor like a little drunkard, through having been newly set upon my feet, and through having been fast asleep, and through waking in the heat and lights and noise of tongues.
austen|Well!
austen|I should have considered it as part of my duty, and the exertion would soon have been nothing.
dickens|Brother, brother!
austen|As they passed through the hall, Lady Catherine opened the doors into the diningparlour and drawingroom, and pronouncing them, after a short survey, to be decent looking rooms, walked on.
dickens|Mrs Joe, said I, as a last resort, I should like to knowif you wouldnt much mindwhere the firing comes from?
austen|And so, there she had set, without an idea of any thing in the world, full ten minutes, perhapswhen, all of a sudden, who should come into be sure it was so very odd!
dickens|Biddy, said I, I made a remark respecting my coming down here often, to see Joe, which you received with a marked silence.
austen|Why had not Miss Woodhouse revived the former good old days of the room?
dickens|For all that I knew this perfectly well, I still felt as if it were not safe to let the coachoffice be out of my sight longer than five minutes at a time; and in this condition of unreason I had performed the first halfhour of a watch of four or five hours, when Wemmick ran against me.
dickens|Holy father, Mithter Jaggerth!
dickens|JAGGERS.
dickens|Mrs Joe, said Uncle Pumblechook, a large hardbreathing middleaged slow man, with a mouth like a fish, dull staring eyes, and sandy hair standing upright on his head, so that he looked as if he had just been all but choked, and had that moment come to, I have brought you as the compliments of the seasonI have brought you, Mum, a bottle of sherry wineand I have brought you, Mum, a bottle of port wine.
dickens|Bring your chair here, and speak on.
dickens|I took her hand in mine, and we went out of the ruined place; and, as the morning mists had risen long ago when I first left the forge, so the evening mists were rising now, and in all the broad expanse of tranquil light they showed to me, I saw no shadow of another parting from her.
dickens|And wot little a man did get, would never prosper with him, Mr Lorry.
dickens|Go along.
dickens|We played until nine oclock, and then it was arranged that when Estella came to London I should be forewarned of her coming and should meet her at the coach; and then I took leave of her, and touched her and left her.
dickens|There were four little girls, and two little boys, besides the baby who might have been either, and the babys next successor who was as yet neither.
dickens|Thats a Blazing strange message.
austen|Mr Denny addressed them directly, and entreated permission to introduce his friend, Mr Wickham, who had returned with him the day before from town, and he was happy to say had accepted a commission in their corps.
dickens|So, with a quiet sigh for me, Biddy rose from the bank, and said, with a fresh and pleasant change of voice, Shall we walk a little farther, or go home?
austen|The ejaculation in Emmas ear expressed, Ah!
dickens|But he had married in England?
austen|After this day, Jane said no more of her indifference.
austen|This is a point which you must settle with your feelings.
austen|he is the handsomest young man that ever was seen!
austen|Who do you think is here?
dickens|Guard!
dickens|Oh!
dickens|Indeed it is so.
dickens|Why then, said the turnkey, grinning again, he knows what Mr Jaggers is.
dickens|said Wemmick.
austen|One cannot know what a man really is by the end of a fortnight.
austen|It was the answer to the communication of his intended marriage.
dickens|Hah!
austen|And you can be always with me.
austen|It is not fair, said Emma, in a whisper; mine was a random guess.
austen|As he quitted the room, Elizabeth felt how improbable it was that they should ever see each other again on such terms of cordiality as had marked their several meetings in Derbyshire; and as she threw a retrospective glance over the whole of their acquaintance, so full of contradictions and varieties, sighed at the perverseness of those feelings which would now have promoted its continuance, and would formerly have rejoiced in its termination.
dickens|This guileless confectioner was not by any means sober, and had a black eye in the green stage of recovery, which was painted over.
dickens|When I looked round, I could see the other lights coming in after us.
dickens|His ignorance, poor fellow, at last served him; he never mistrusted but that my inheritance was quite safe, with Mr Jaggerss aid.
dickens|Not but what hes artful, even in his defiance of them.
dickens|Skin the stockings off Mr Waldengarver, said the owner of that property, or youll bust em.
dickens|Not one of the whole number appeals by look or gesture, to the pity of the people.
dickens|Mr Jaggers did the same.
dickens|It bewildered me, and under its influence I continued at heart to hate my trade and to be ashamed of home.
dickens|The worst of it was that that bullying old Pumblechook, preyed upon by a devouring curiosity to be informed of all I had seen and heard, came gaping over in his chaisecart at teatime, to have the details divulged to him.
austen|To be sure, said Harriet, in a mortified voice, he is not so genteel as real gentlemen.
dickens|What else?
austen|Isabella had been pleased with Harriet; and a few weeks spent in London must give her some amusement.
dickens|Says Compeyson Why, you fool, dont you know shes got a living body?
dickens|We went towards Camberwell Green, and when we were thereabouts, Wemmick said suddenly,  Halloa!
dickens|Excuse me, Monsieur the Marquisit is a pityyes.
dickens|Seeing in this arrangement the hope of rendering real service in that pressing emergency, Miss Pross hailed it with joy.
dickens|until they left off, of their own will.
dickens|How do they call that man?
austen|I hardly ever get a letter.
austen|I do not say it is so; but you will do well to consider whether it is so or not, and to regulate your behaviour accordingly.
austen|She depended on the evil feelings of the Eltons for supplying all the discipline of pointed neglect that could be farther requisite.
austen|But I was really quite shocked the other dayfor Mr Knightley called one morning, and Jane was eating these apples, and we talked about them and said how much she enjoyed them, and he asked whether we were not got to the end of our stock.
austen|You had better go on, said she.
dickens|About the usual time; it may be a quarter of an hour later.
dickens|Lookee here, old chap, said Joe, bending over me.
austen|At this moment, an ingenious and animating suspicion entering Emmas brain with regard to Jane Fairfax, this charming Mr Dixon, and the not going to Ireland, she said, with the insidious design of farther discovery,  You must feel it very fortunate that Miss Fairfax should be allowed to come to you at such a time.
dickens|At such times as when your sister is on the Rampage, Pip, Joe sank his voice to a whisper and glanced at the door, candor compels fur to admit that she is a Buster.
dickens|When you came into the Temple last night said I, pausing to wonder whether that could really have been last night, which seemed so long ago.
austen|He should have respected even unreasonable scruples, had there been such; but hers were all reasonable.
austen|What, all five out at once?
austen|I wish I might take this for a compliment; but to be so easily seen through I am afraid is pitiful.
dickens|asked Biddy, plucking a blackcurrant leaf.
dickens|I felt impatient of him and out of temper with him; in which condition he heaped coals of fire on my head.
dickens|Hatchets, knives, bayonets, swords, all brought to be sharpened, were all red with it.
dickens|What stung me, was the identification of the whole affair with my unoffending self.
austen|And may I ask said Elizabeth; but the terms, I suppose, must be complied with.
dickens|This bringing us into conversation, he was so good as to entertain me with my own story,of course with the popular feature that Pumblechook was my earliest benefactor and the founder of my fortunes.
dickens|Whereas the Boar had cultivated my good opinion with warm assiduity when I was coming into property, the Boar was exceedingly cool on the subject now that I was going out of property.
dickens|May He have mercy on all who are in danger!
austen|A fine place, but very retired.
austen|The housekeeper came; a respectablelooking elderly woman, much less fine, and more civil, than she had any notion of finding her.
dickens|It was called Mill Pond Bank, Chinkss Basin; and I had no other guide to Chinkss Basin than the Old Green Copper Ropewalk.
austen|Mr Bingley had not been of age two years, when he was tempted by an accidental recommendation to look at Netherfield House.
dickens|Gradually I slipped from the chair and lay on the floor.
austen|When they all removed to Brighton, therefore, you had no reason, I suppose, to believe them fond of each other?
dickens|You wont find half so much fault in me if you think of me in my forge dress, with my hammer in my hand, or even my pipe.
dickens|Tut!
austen|Would not he like to have him always on the spot?
austen|interrupted Emma, there will be plenty of time for talking every thing over.
dickens|I am quite sure, Mr Cruncher, returned Miss Pross, that you never will do it again, whatever it is, and I beg you not to think it necessary to mention more particularly what it is.
austen|I cannot catch their tone of conversation, or appear interested in their concerns, as I often see done.
dickens|Goodness, uncle!
austen|This was the conclusion of the first series of reflection.
dickens|Is it not impressive, Mr Darnay?
dickens|said Miss Pross, who understood the request as perfectly as Madame Defarge understood the answer.
austen|May I ask to what these questions tend?
dickens|At Hammersmith, west of London.
austen|Oh!
austen|Upon the whole, therefore, she found, what has been sometimes found before, that an event to which she had been looking with impatient desire did not, in taking place, bring all the satisfaction she had promised herself.
dickens|But, as there were not only carriage and horses to be seen to, but travelling papers; and as time pressed, for the day was drawing to an end, it came at last to their hastily dividing the business that was necessary to be done, and hurrying away to do it.
dickens|How can you say that?
dickens|Yes, said Carton.
austen|I am not qualified to form one.
austen|He praised her for being without art or affectation, for having simple, honest, generous, feelings.
dickens|I know, I know, rejoined Mr Carton, carelessly.
austen|Mrs Weston had been shewing them all to him, and now he would shew them all to Emma;fortunate in having no other resemblance to a child, than in a total want of taste for what he saw, for he was slow, constant, and methodical.
austen|Oh!
dickens|For, I had by that time come to myself so far as to consider that I could not go back to the inn and see Drummle there; that I could not bear to sit upon the coach and be spoken to; that I could do nothing half so good for myself as tire myself out.
dickens|Why, whatll you do with a halfholiday, if you get it?
dickens|He was a dark man altogether, with good eyes and a good bold breadth between them.
austen|You and Miss Fairfax gave us some very good music.
dickens|Then why not change it?
dickens|You are a cursed emigrant, cried a farrier, making at him in a furious manner through the press, hammer in hand; and you are a cursed aristocrat!
dickens|said Mr Drummle.
dickens|Two leagues beyond the summit of the hill?
austen|To look at her, nobody would think how delighted and happy she is to have secured such a situation.
dickens|I went straight back to the Temple, where I found the terrible Provis drinking rum and water and smoking negrohead, in safety.
dickens|He handed in the names of two witnesses; Theophile Gabelle, and Alexandre Manette.
austen|But then, Mrs Goddard will want to see it.
dickens|English?
austen|a fine complimentary opening But it is his way.
austen|Oh!
dickens|Such a mean brute, such a stupid brute!
dickens|My dear Charles, said Mr Lorry, with cheerful confidence, you touch some of the reasons for my going not for my staying away.
austen|I am not oneandtwenty.
dickens|It was a long, grieving sound, like a sighalmost like a sob.
dickens|Yes, perhaps I ought to mention, said Herbert, who had become curiously crestfallen and meek, since we entered on the interesting theme, that she is rather below my mothers nonsensical family notions.
austen|All this she must possess, added Darcy, and to all this she must yet add something more substantial, in the improvement of her mind by extensive reading.
dickens|I come her, he retorted, on my legs.
dickens|I intend to marry.
dickens|At last I come behind him and hit him on the cheek to turn him round and get a smashing one at him, when I was seen and seized.
austen|They were looking over views in Swisserland.
austen|Well, returning to the room, I have not been able to succeed.
dickens|Let him turn those eyes of his on me.
dickens|said the man.
austen|He must be going.
austen|Perhaps I do.
dickens|In one of those pauses she recoiled and cried out, for she saw a figure standing in the room.
austen|I do indeed, replied Elizabeth, colouring.
austen|He could even listen to Sir William Lucas, when he complimented him on carrying away the brightest jewel of the country, and expressed his hopes of their all meeting frequently at St.
dickens|When or where that intention may be carried out, I cannot say; no one can say.
austen|With his notions of dignity, he would probably feel that the arguments, which to Elizabeth had appeared weak and ridiculous, contained much good sense and solid reasoning.
austen|The idea of Mr Collins, with all his solemn composure, being run away with by his feelings, made Elizabeth so near laughing, that she could not use the short pause he allowed in any attempt to stop him further, and he continued  My reasons for marrying are, first, that I think it a right thing for every clergyman in easy circumstances like myself to set the example of matrimony in his parish; secondly, that I am convinced that it will add very greatly to my happiness; and thirdlywhich perhaps I ought to have mentioned earlier, that it is the particular advice and recommendation of the very noble lady whom I have the honour of calling patroness.
dickens|But it may not be so.
austen|She was not rendered formidable by silence; but whatever she said was spoken in so authoritative a tone, as marked her selfimportance, and brought Mr Wickham immediately to Elizabeths mind; and from the observation of the day altogether, she believed Lady Catherine to be exactly what he represented.
austen|This letter, however, was written, and sealed, and sent.
dickens|Identity of Mr Pip and friend confessed.
dickens|exclaimed the man, striking his left cheek mercilessly, with the flat of his hand.
austen|Such an overthrow of every thing she had been wishing for!
austen|Butthat he should talk of encouragement, should consider her as aware of his views, accepting his attentions, meaning in short, to marry him!
dickens|And I saw pistols in it,and jam,and pills.
austen|at present I ask no more.
austen|But last summer he was again most painfully obtruded on my notice.
austen|A woman is not to marry a man merely because she is asked, or because he is attached to her, and can write a tolerable letter.
dickens|When was it done, Mr Barsad?
austen|The necessity must be obeyed, and further apology would be absurd.
austen|You know, sister, we agreed long ago never to mention a word about it.
dickens|Jerry, the messenger, who had made his own observations, in his own manner, and who had been sucking the rust off his fingers in his absorption, stretched his neck to hear who they were.
austen|repeated Emma.
austen|Do not we rather surpass your expectations?
dickens|We must hold up our heads and fight low, as my brother Solomon used to say.
dickens|I told him, and he was attentive until I had finished, and then burst out laughing again, and asked me if I was sore afterwards?
dickens|said Mr Lorry, as the safest remark he could think of.
austen|Lady Lucas herself has often said so, and envied me Janes beauty.
dickens|Mr Jaggers was querulous and angry with me for having let it slip through my fingers, and said we must memorialize by and by, and try at all events for some of it.
austen|cried Elizabeth.
dickens|Good day, madame, said the newcomer.
austen|I always regret excessively on dear Emmas account that she cannot be more at Highbury; but now their daughter is married, I suppose Colonel and Mrs Campbell will not be able to part with her at all.
austen|All was safe and prosperous; and as the removal of one solicitude generally makes way for another, Emma, being now certain of her ball, began to adopt as the next vexation Mr Knightleys provoking indifference about it.
dickens|Wolf!
dickens|From here, at eight.
austen|Let us hope, therefore, that her being there may teach her her own insignificance.
austen|We were speaking of it only yesterday, and agreeing how fortunate it was for Emma, that there should be such a girl in Highbury for her to associate with.
austen|I hope not.
austen|I cannot at all consent to Mr Knightleys marrying; and I am sure it is not at all likely.
austen|I think she will.
dickens|said the kneeling Number Three his fingers ever wandering over and over those fine nerves, with a strikingly greedy air, as if he hungered for somethingthat was neither food nor drink; the guard, horse and foot, surrounded the petitioner, and struck him blows.
austen|His professional engagements did not allow of his being put off, but both father and daughter were disturbed by its happening so.
dickens|After a while she said, Call Estella!
dickens|Here Mr Drummle looked at his boots and I looked at mine, and then Mr Drummle looked at my boots, and I looked at his.
austen|Had he said any thing to bear a different construction, I should not have believed him.
dickens|He has no hand free, to wave to me; I dare not call to him; he regards me like a dead man.
austen|She will be down in a moment, I dare say.
dickens|One of the soldiers opened its wooden windows, another lighted the fire, another turned to at the bellows, the rest stood round the blaze, which was soon roaring.
austen|There was also a postscript to this effect  I have written to Colonel Forster to desire him to find out, if possible, from some of the young mans intimates in the regiment, whether Wickham has any relations or connections who would be likely to know in what part of town he has now concealed himself.
dickens|My dear fellow, said Herbert, let the near prospect of our separationfor, it is very nearbe my justification for troubling you about yourself.
dickens|She was looking at me then with a look of supreme aversion.
dickens|Im not a going to be made unlucky by your sneaking.
dickens|I said to Pip, I knowed as I had been low.
austen|She smiled, but made no answer.
dickens|As the days went on, I noticed more and more that he would lie placidly looking at the white ceiling, with an absence of light in his face until some word of mine brightened it for an instant, and then it would subside again.
austen|It is to be a secret, I conclude, said he.
dickens|Habit?
dickens|If you really dont want to endanger my existencewhich I half believe you dogo your ways as soon as possible, and let me go mine.
dickens|he said.
austen|I think her the very worst sort of companion that Emma could possibly have.
dickens|I hope there aint, but I cant make so Nation sure of that, said the guard, in gruff soliloquy.
austen|Mr Darcy was writing, and Miss Bingley, seated near him, was watching the progress of his letter and repeatedly calling off his attention by messages to his sister.
austen|I have heard much of your masters fine person, said Mrs Gardiner, looking at the picture; it is a handsome face.
dickens|We really have not heads enough; it would be a pity, I think.
dickens|Let him come soon, and come along with you.
austen|She had such a regard for Mr Knightley, as to think he deserved even her dearest Emma; and it was in every respect so proper, suitable, and unexceptionable a connexion, and in one respect, one point of the highest importance, so peculiarly eligible, so singularly fortunate, that now it seemed as if Emma could not safely have attached herself to any other creature, and that she had herself been the stupidest of beings in not having thought of it, and wished it long ago.
austen|Could it be?
austen|He has more to give.
dickens|Do you call that being a Banker?
austen|how unlucky!
dickens|asked the passenger, then, with mildly quavering speech.
dickens|The lady wont ride today; the weather wont do.
dickens|The unqualified truth is, that when I loved Estella with the love of a man, I loved her simply because I found her irresistible.
austen|Emma made as slight a reply as she could; but it was fully sufficient for Mrs Elton, who only wanted to be talking herself.
dickens|Checking the postmaster, who was for turning his horses head to the yard the drunken patriot sat composedly in his saddle looking on, with the line round his wrist, Darnay said, as soon as he could make his voice heard  Friends, you deceive yourselves, or you are deceived.
dickens|Beginning to be struck by Defarges manner, Mr Lorry looked dubiously at him, and led the way.
dickens|It would have rankled in me more than it did, if I had not regarded myself as eliciting it by being so set apart for her and assigned to her.
austen|But make a virtue of it by all means.
austen|Both sisters were uncomfortable enough.
dickens|On a day in August, when Mr Stryver after notifying to his jackal that he had thought better of that marrying matter had carried his delicacy into Devonshire, and when the sight and scent of flowers in the City streets had some waifs of goodness in them for the worst, of health for the sickliest, and of youth for the oldest, Sydneys feet still trod those stones.
dickens|The sensation was like being touched in the marrow with some pungent and searching acid, it set my very teeth on edge.
dickens|What!
dickens|As he extended his hand with a magnificently forgiving air, and as I was broken by illness and unfit to quarrel, I took it.
austen|The intermediate month was the one fixed on, as far as they dared, by Emma and Mr Knightley.
austen|This roused a general astonishment; and he had the pleasure of being eagerly questioned by his wife and his five daughters at once.
austen|Mr Eltons rights, however, gradually revived.
dickens|The schoolhouse where Biddy was mistress I had never seen; but, the little roundabout lane by which I entered the village, for quietness sake, took me past it.
austen|Such was the blood of gentility which Emma had formerly been so ready to vouch for!
austen|But stranger things have happened; and when we cease to care for each other as we do now, it will be the means of confirming us in that sort of true disinterested friendship which I can already look forward to with pleasure.
austen|Franks was the first idea; and his the greatest zeal in pursuing it; for the lady was the best judge of the difficulties, and the most solicitous for accommodation and appearance.
dickens|Assured of this, I softly removed the key to the outside of his door, and turned it on him before I again sat down by the fire.
austen|Mrs Bennet wished to understand by it that he thought of paying his addresses to one of her younger girls, and Mary might have been prevailed on to accept him.
dickens|They both entered after methe last springing in, after putting up the steps.
austen|His acquaintance with Elizabeth was very trifling.
austen|I have some notion of putting such a trimming as this to my white and silver poplin.
dickens|returned Mr Wemmick.
dickens|She had not been with us more than a year I remember her being newly out of mourning at the time it struck me, when I observed to myself one evening that she had curiously thoughtful and attentive eyes; eyes that were very pretty and very good.
dickens|A stranger would have found them insupportable, and even to me they were so oppressive that I hesitated, half inclined to go back.
dickens|Would he remember what took place in the relapse?
dickens|What I wanted, who can say?
austen|There was one person among his new acquaintance in Surry, not so leniently disposed.
dickens|Though he said it with a grave smile of earnestness, and though he even put the old mans hand to his lips, he did not part from him then.
dickens|For whose sake would you reveal the secret?
austen|I want his directions no more than his drugs.
dickens|With those words the passenger opened the coachdoor and got in; not at all assisted by his fellowpassengers, who had expeditiously secreted their watches and purses in their boots, and were now making a general pretence of being asleep.
dickens|said Mr Pumblechook.
dickens|poultry, poultry!
austen|They met again on Sunday, and then I saw him too.
dickens|Your guardian was not at that time in Miss Havishams counsels, and she was too haughty and too much in love to be advised by any one.
dickens|At length little Jane, perceiving its young brains to be imperilled, softly left her place, and with many small artifices coaxed the dangerous weapon away.
dickens|cried Mr Lorry, absolutely desperate.
dickens|theyll find him guilty, said the other.
austen|this must be the very shop that every body attends every day of their lives, as my father informs me.
dickens|A suppertable was laid for two, in the third of the rooms; a round room, in one of the chateaus four extinguishertopped towers.
austen|But as I have always had a thoroughly good opinion of Miss Fairfax, I never could, under any blunder, have spoken ill of her; and as to speaking ill of him, there I must have been safe.
austen|Indeed you are mistaken.
dickens|May I go with you, father?
austen|Charlotte did not stay much longer, and Elizabeth was then left to reflect on what she had heard.
austen|I merely asked, whether you had known much of Miss Fairfax and her party at Weymouth.
dickens|And before the tumbrils arrive.
austen|Then, showing her purchasesLook here, I have bought this bonnet.
austen|Elizabeth received them with all the forbearance of civility, and, at the request of the gentlemen, remained at the instrument till her ladyships carriage was ready to take them all home.
dickens|Breathing more freely in a little while, he sat down at the table, and listened again until the clock struck Two.
austen|She had no visible friends but what had been acquired at Highbury, and was now just returned from a long visit in the country to some young ladies who had been at school there with her.
dickens|He had been talking all day, on many subjects, and with unusual vivacity.
dickens|O, those people with Miss Havisham, and the tortures they undergo!
austen|She doubted whether she had not transgressed the duty of woman by woman, in betraying her suspicions of Jane Fairfaxs feelings to Frank Churchill.
austen|Lady Catherine approached, and, after listening for a few minutes, said to Darcy  Miss Bennet would not play at all amiss if she practised more, and could have the advantage of a London master.
austen|Thank you, we do indeed.
dickens|Cribbed and barred and moored by massive rusty chains, the prisonship seemed in my young eyes to be ironed like the prisoners.
austen|Exactly so; that is what principally strikes me.
dickens|I have never seen two men look more oddly at one another than Mr Jaggers and Wemmick did after this apostrophe.
austen|And if I did, which, however, I am far from allowing I should not feel that I had done wrong.
dickens|Dont cut my throat, sir, I pleaded in terror.
dickens|I was brought here, I was brought to my living grave.
austen|I do not know, my dearbut it is so long since she was here!
dickens|When I said some reassuring words, she stretched out her tremulous right hand, as though she was going to touch me; but she recalled it again before I understood the action, or knew how to receive it.
austen|I will not spend my hours in running after my neighbours every time they go away and come back again.
dickens|I sat thinking of it long after he had ascended to the clouds in a large watchcase, and still I could not make it out.
austen|Allowing for the common demands of the game, Mr Wickham was therefore at leisure to talk to Elizabeth, and she was very willing to hear him, though what she chiefly wished to hear she could not hope to be toldthe history of his acquaintance with Mr Darcy.
dickens|He sees the soldiers, with their red coats lighted up by the torches carried afore, closing in round him.
dickens|It was you as always give Old Orlick a bad name to her.
austen|Break it to me, cried Emma, standing still with terror.
dickens|But, imbued from her childhood with a brooding sense of wrong, and an inveterate hatred of a class, opportunity had developed her into a tigress.
austen|at threeandtwenty to be the king of his companythe great manthe practised politician, who is to read every bodys character, and make every bodys talents conduce to the display of his own superiority; to be dispensing his flatteries around, that he may make all appear like fools compared with himself!
dickens|As if his memory were impaired, or his faculties disordered, the prisoner made an effort to rally his attention.
austen|Oh!
austen|such an aunt!
austen|Depend upon it, Emma, a sensible man would find no difficulty in it.
dickens|A few passers turned their heads, and a few shook their fingers at him as an aristocrat; otherwise, that a man in good clothes should be going to prison, was no more remarkable than that a labourer in working clothes should be going to work.
dickens|Among the many wild changes observable on familiar things which made this wild ride unreal, not the least was the seeming rarity of sleep.
austen|Her air was not conciliating, nor was her manner of receiving them such as to make her visitors forget their inferior rank.
austen|We quarrelled.
austen|Then the two third he danced with Miss King, and the two fourth with Maria Lucas, and the two fifth with Jane again, and the two sixth with Lizzy, and the Boulanger  If he had had any compassion for me, cried her husband impatiently, he would not have danced half so much!
dickens|I never told you.
dickens|, and by many associations of the days when what we call the World was not so real with me, and my faults were not confirmed in me.
austen|My fingers, said Elizabeth, do not move over this instrument in the masterly manner which I see so many womens do.
dickens|For the loss of his services.
austen|And what inclines one less to bear, she has no fair pretence of family or blood.
austen|Did Mr Darcy give you reasons for this interference?
dickens|Astonishing!
dickens|The mother is a lady of some station, though not averse to increasing her income.
austen|Their parties abroad were less varied than before, and at home she had a mother and sister whose constant repinings at the dullness of everything around them threw a real gloom over their domestic circle; and, though Kitty might in time regain her natural degree of sense, since the disturbers of her brain were removed, her other sister, from whose disposition greater evil might be apprehended, was likely to be hardened in all her folly and assurance by a situation of such double danger as a wateringplace and a camp.
austen|Pride, observed Mary, who piqued herself upon the solidity of her reflections, is a very common failing, I believe.
dickens|Orlick, without a doubt!
dickens|You are not afraid of a woman who has never seen the sun since you were born?
dickens|Thats all.
austen|cried Emma feelingly.
dickens|His latent uneasiness had been, that bad aims were being worked out in his own unhappy land by bad instruments, and that he who could not fail to know that he was better than they, was not there, trying to do something to stay bloodshed, and assert the claims of mercy and humanity.
dickens|You can then?
dickens|Was he the only passenger who came on board at that untimely hour?
dickens|It was necessary for Joe to hold on heavily to the table with his left elbow, and to get his right leg well out behind him, before he could begin; and when he did begin he made every downstroke so slowly that it might have been six feet long, while at every upstroke I could hear his pen spluttering extensively.
dickens|Hah!
dickens|That she may be able to recognise the faces and know the persons.
dickens|Mr Lorry, look again upon the prisoner.
dickens|exclaimed Miss Havisham.
dickens|In our boyish want of discretion I dare say we took too much to drink, and I know we talked too much.
dickens|I tell you, let her alone, said Joe.
dickens|Why should I look at him?
austen|A child on the watch, came towards them to beg; and Miss Bickerton, excessively frightened, gave a great scream, and calling on Harriet to follow her, ran up a steep bank, cleared a slight hedge at the top, and made the best of her way by a short cut back to Highbury.
dickens|It was repeated.
dickens|The House approached Mr Lorry, and laying a soiled and unopened letter before him, asked if he had yet discovered any traces of the person to whom it was addressed?
dickens|Look here, you sir.
dickens|Why not?
dickens|That it is hard, said Mrs Coiler, to have dear Mr Pockets time and attention diverted from dear Mrs Pocket.
austen|yesthe handsomest young lady that ever was seen; and so accomplished!
austen|To any thing, every thingto time, chance, circumstance, slow effects, sudden bursts, perseverance and weariness, health and sickness.
dickens|Mr Jarvis Lorry.
austen|But still he would be her husband.
austen|So unreasonably early!
austen|She was then able to walk, though but slowly, and was moving awaybut her terror and her purse were too tempting, and she was followed, or rather surrounded, by the whole gang, demanding more.
dickens|My hown cuthenth gone to Mithter Wemmick at thith prethent minute, to hoffer him hany termth.
dickens|The nose, beautifully formed otherwise, was very slightly pinched at the top of each nostril.
austen|His guilt and his descent appear by your account to be the same, said Elizabeth angrily; for I have heard you accuse him of nothing worse than of being the son of Mr Darcys steward, and of that, I can assure you, he informed me himself.
dickens|Yet the current of the time swept by, so strong and deep, and carried the time away so fiercely, that Charles had lain in prison one year and three months when the Doctor was thus steady and confident.
dickens|Silent, humane, indispensable in hospital and prison, using his art equally among assassins and victims, he was a man apart.
dickens|I had started, but not under his touch.
dickens|Will it?
austen|We were very wrong before; we will be cautious now.
austen|You began the evening well, Charlotte, said Mrs Bennet with civil selfcommand to Miss Lucas.
dickens|You have no time to ask me why I bring it, or what it means; I have no time to tell you.
austen|Though she dared not depend upon the consequence, she yet received pleasure from observing his behaviour.
dickens|We were all very low, and none the higher for pretending to be in spirits.
dickens|Tell me what it is.
dickens|I love it.
dickens|holding up his dripping hand.
dickens|Mr Lorry, look upon the prisoner.
dickens|I hope one remote cause of its firing may have been my consciousness that if I had known his errand, I should have given him more encouragement.
dickens|Although I was not in the habit of counting Drummle as one of my intimate associates, I answered, Yes.
dickens|Its death to come back.
dickens|And now, Handel, said he, finally throwing off the story as it were, there is a perfectly open understanding between us.
austen|Me, my love, cried his wife, hearing and understanding only in part.
austen|Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often used synonymously.
dickens|In all his ways of sitting and standing, and eating and drinking,of brooding about in a highshouldered reluctant style,of taking out his great hornhandled jackknife and wiping it on his legs and cutting his food,of lifting light glasses and cups to his lips, as if they were clumsy pannikins,of chopping a wedge off his bread, and soaking up with it the last fragments of gravy round and round his plate, as if to make the most of an allowance, and then drying his fingerends on it, and then swallowing it,in these ways and a thousand other small nameless instances arising every minute in the day, there was Prisoner, Felon, Bondsman, plain as plain could be.
austen|The weather soon improved enough for those to move who must move; and Mr Woodhouse having, as usual, tried to persuade his daughter to stay behind with all her children, was obliged to see the whole party set off, and return to his lamentations over the destiny of poor Isabella;which poor Isabella, passing her life with those she doated on, full of their merits, blind to their faults, and always innocently busy, might have been a model of right feminine happiness.
dickens|As everything turned upon her, and revolved about her, they went out under the planetree, and she carried the wine down for the special benefit of Mr Lorry.
dickens|I knew he would be worse by and by.
austen|My behaviour to Miss Woodhouse indicated, I believe, more than it ought.
austen|And the more sensibility you betray of their just horrors, the more I shall like you.
dickens|Would you give me the time?
austen|He promises fairly; and I hope among different people, where they may each have a character to preserve, they will both be more prudent.
austen|Lydia talked incessantly of lottery tickets, of the fish she had lost and the fish she had won; and Mr Collins in describing the civility of Mr and Mrs Phillips, protesting that he did not in the least regard his losses at whist, enumerating all the dishes at supper, and repeatedly fearing that he crowded his cousins, had more to say than he could well manage before the carriage stopped at Longbourn House.
austen|I can remember no symptom of affection on either side; and had anything of the kind been perceptible, you must be aware that ours is not a family on which it could be thrown away.
austen|Her behaviour to my dear Charlotte is charming.
austen|Do not you remember what Mr Perry said, so many years ago, when I had the measles?
austen|He quitted the militia and engaged in trade, having brothers already established in a good way in London, which afforded him a favourable opening.
austen|Nor did he seem much more at ease; when he spoke, his accent had none of its usual sedateness; and he repeated his inquiries as to the time of her having left Longbourn, and of her having stayed in Derbyshire, so often, and in so hurried a way, as plainly spoke the distraction of his thoughts.
austen|This will never do.
dickens|My first most vivid and broad impression of the identity of things seems to me to have been gained on a memorable raw afternoon towards evening.
dickens|I kiss her by you.
austen|She performed her part indeed without much graciousness, but Mrs Bennet was satisfied, and soon afterwards ordered her carriage.
austen|She could not but hear; she could not avoid answering,  Till I have a letter from Colonel Campbell, said she, in a voice of forced calmness, I can imagine nothing with any confidence.
austen|He addressed himself to Miss Bennet, with a polite congratulation; Mr Hurst also made her a slight bow, and said he was very glad; but diffuseness and warmth remained for Bingleys salutation.
austen|Her thoughts were all fixed on that one spot of Pemberley House, whichever it might be, where Mr Darcy then was.
austen|If Jane does not get well soon, we will call in Mr Perry.
dickens|Thank Heaven, no.
dickens|Enough House, said I; thats a curious name, miss.
austen|I could not walk half so far.
austen|It seemed too precious an offering for any degree of publicity.
austen|And her neighbours at Lucas Lodge, therefore for through their communication with the Collinses, the report, she concluded, had reached Lady Catherine, had only set that down as almost certain and immediate, which she had looked forward to as possible at some future time.
dickens|If my career were of that better kind that there was any opportunity or capacity of sacrifice in it, I would embrace any sacrifice for you and for those dear to you.
dickens|At the old lodgings it was understood that he was summoned to Dover, and, in fact, he was taken down the Dover road and cornered out of it.
austen|A very proper compliment!
austen|Miss Batess gratitude for Mrs Eltons attentions to Jane was in the first style of guileless simplicity and warmth.
austen|I made the best excuses I could for not having been able to wait on him and Mrs Elton on this happy occasion; I said that I hoped I should in the course of the summer.
dickens|But there were no pigeons in the dovecot, no horses in the stable, no pigs in the sty, no malt in the storehouse, no smells of grains and beer in the copper or the vat.
austen|And that you should have been so mistaken, is amazing!
dickens|I start for London, Miss Havisham, tomorrow, I was exceedingly careful what I said, and I thought you would kindly not mind my taking leave of you.
dickens|Go on, Joseph.
austen|She blushed, and Jane blushed; but the cheeks of the two who caused their confusion suffered no variation of colour.
dickens|I could do nothing but comply, and I entered it in silence.
dickens|You are rather excited, but you are quite yourself.
austen|They owed to him their two or three politest puzzles; and the joy and exultation with which at last he recalled, and rather sentimentally recited, that wellknown charade,      My first doth affliction denote,       Which my second is destind to feel     And my whole is the best antidote       That affliction to soften and heal.
austen|But, said I, I shall be more sure of succeeding if one of you will go with me.
dickens|Well!
dickens|Not only that; but the village, lightheaded with famine, fire, and bellringing, and bethinking itself that Monsieur Gabelle had to do with the collection of rent and taxesthough it was but a small instalment of taxes, and no rent at all, that Gabelle had got in those latter daysbecame impatient for an interview with him, and, surrounding his house, summoned him to come forth for personal conference.
dickens|Master, she again murmured.
dickens|The remodelled procession started, with a chimneysweep driving the hearseadvised by the regular driver, who was perched beside him, under close inspection, for the purposeand with a pieman, also attended by his cabinet minister, driving the mourning coach.
dickens|A slight frown and a laconic Yes, were the answer.
austen|Since I began this letter, which will be longer than I foresaw, I have heard from her.
dickens|and with a smile of forgiving pity on her walnutshell countenance for the weaknesses of the rest.
dickens|All other swindlers upon earth are nothing to the selfswindlers, and with such pretences did I cheat myself.
austen|Be so kind as to apologise for us to Miss Darcy.
dickens|he retorted, first stretching himself and then shaking himself; my orders ends here, young master.
dickens|Dye think so?
austen|Wheres dear Mr Richard?
dickens|He answered quite seriously, and used the word as if it denoted some profession.
austen|It appears to me a plan that nobody can object to, if Mr and Mrs Weston do not.
dickens|I saw in this the reason for my being staved off so long and the reason for my late guardians declining to commit himself to the formal knowledge of such a scheme.
austen|Behold him there, the monarch of the seas!
austen|He looked surprised, displeased, alarmed; but with a moments recollection and a returning smile, replied, that he had formerly seen him often; and, after observing that he was a very gentlemanlike man, asked her how she had liked him.
dickens|Of course hed much the best of it to the last,his character was so good.
dickens|There was nothing very surprising in that; but again, I was rather surprised, when he said, as if he were animated by a brilliant idea,  Lets go in!
austen|Anxious and uneasy, the period which passed in the drawingroom, before the gentlemen came, was wearisome and dull to a degree that almost made her uncivil.
austen|Nobody can tell what I suffer!
dickens|All right, John, all right, returned the old man, seeing himself spoken to.
austen|My behaviour, during the very happy fortnight which I spent with you, did not, I hope, lay me open to reprehension, excepting on one point.
austen|She had spent six weeks with great enjoyment; and the pleasure of being with Charlotte, and the kind attentions she had received, must make her feel the obliged.
austen|We explored to KingsWeston twice last summer, in that way, most delightfully, just after their first having the barouchelandau.
dickens|But such a he moved his chair and looked about the floor between us, and then again at mesuch a most oncommon Bolt as that!
dickens|Stay long enough, and I shall knit BARSAD before you go.
dickens|That he had fallen among far greater dangers than those which had developed themselves when he left England, he of course knew now.
dickens|The very first words I heard them interchange as I became conscious, were the words of my own thought, Two One Pound notes.
dickens|I forget in detail what they were, but I have a general recollection that he was to begin with reviving the Drama, and to end with crushing it; inasmuch as his decease would leave it utterly bereft and without a chance or hope.
austen|You, sir, may say any thing, cried Mr Elton, but I must confess that I regard it as a most happy thought, the placing of Miss Smith out of doors; and the tree is touched with such inimitable spirit!
austen|So would poor little Harriet.
austen|I should be unwilling, I own, to live in any other part of the town;there is hardly any other that I could be satisfied to have my children in but we are so remarkably airy!
austen|We hear of him for ever at some wateringplace or other.
dickens|If I doWell, said madame, drawing a breath and nodding her head with a stern kind of coquetry, Ill use it!
dickens|You have heard of the name.
dickens|Cantbe.
dickens|What is that?
austen|You may believe me.
austen|My dearest Lizzy, do but consider in what a disgraceful light it places Mr Darcy, to be treating his fathers favourite in such a manner, one whom his father had promised to provide for.
dickens|This was such a great fall, that I said in discomfiture, O, more than that.
austen|She felt that she should like to have had the power of refusal; and afterwards, as the idea of the party to be assembled there, consisting precisely of those whose society was dearest to her, occurred again and again, she did not know that she might not have been tempted to accept.
austen|Very goodnatured, I declare.
austen|Mrs Weston was disappointed.
austen|Since her being at Lambton, she had heard that Miss Darcy was exceedingly proud; but the observation of a very few minutes convinced her that she was only exceedingly shy.
dickens|I was going to wish her many happy returns, when she lifted her stick.
dickens|On the next day of my attendance, when our usual exercise was over, and I had landed her at her dressingtable, she stayed me with a movement of her impatient fingers  Tell me the name again of that blacksmith of yours.
austen|But I am not afraid of your seeing what he writes.
austen|His father was an excellent man, said Mrs Gardiner.
austen|He inquired in a friendly, though general way, after her family, and looked and spoke with the same goodhumoured ease that he had ever done.
dickens|Wemmick explained to me while the Aged got his spectacles out, that this was according to custom, and that it gave the old gentleman infinite satisfaction to read the news aloud.
austen|Yes, that of course.
austen|Their reception from Mr Bennet, to whom they then turned, was not quite so cordial.
dickens|What did the two then, to persuade her husband to use his influence with her, to make her willing?
dickens|asked Biddy, stopping in the narrow garden walk, and looking at me under the stars with a clear and honest eye.
dickens|Dont say you dont know that, Mum.
dickens|I aint here for harm, young master, I suppose?
dickens|But he said nothing after offering his Blue Blazes observation, until the glasses of rum and water were brought; and then he made his shot, and a most extraordinary shot it was.
dickens|One of the most remarkable sufferers by the same axea womanhad asked at the foot of the same scaffold, not long before, to be allowed to write down the thoughts that were inspiring her.
dickens|and wi verses in his speech, too,and warnt it me as could only say, Gentlemen, this man at my side is a most precious rascal?
dickens|You heard me say why, a minute ago.
austen|True, true, you are acquainted with Miss Fairfax; I remember you knew her at Weymouth, and a fine girl she is.
dickens|and we went on again.
dickens|But he will perish; there is no real hope.
dickens|said I.
dickens|Say youll help me to be good then, said I.
dickens|Nor did I ever regard him as having anything ludicrous about himor anything but what was serious, honest, and goodin his tutor communication with me.
dickens|The allotted time ran out, while we were thus; but, looking round, I found the governor of the prison standing near me, and he whispered, You neednt go yet.
dickens|Thank God for us, thank God!
dickens|When I told Herbert what had passed within the house, he was for our immediately going before a magistrate in the town, late at night as it was, and getting out a warrant.
austen|To have her haunting the Abbey, and thanking him all day long for his great kindness in marrying Jane?
dickens|In England.
dickens|You must be, Mr Carton, if the tale of fiftytwo is to be right.
dickens|You will find a fine seacoal fire, sir.
austen|But you knew what a dutiful creature you had to deal with.
austen|Though I think he had better not have married.
dickens|And youll take any pains, and spend any money, to drive me out of this country, will you?
dickens|She says many hard things of you, but you say nothing of her.
dickens|I have been looking everywhere for my bench, and I cant find it.
austen|Lady Catherine is far from requiring that elegance of dress in us which becomes herself and her daughter.
austen|Oh!
dickens|If your father had not died when he didDont be frightened!
austen|At Christmas every body invites their friends about them, and people think little of even the worst weather.
austen|It was settled that they should go to Box Hill.
austen|With your good sense, to be so honestly blind to the follies and nonsense of others!
austen|Elizabeth, having rather expected to affront him, was amazed at his gallantry; but there was a mixture of sweetness and archness in her manner which made it difficult for her to affront anybody; and Darcy had never been so bewitched by any woman as he was by her.
austen|An egg boiled very soft is not unwholesome.
austen|Never were such neighbours.
austen|They had not long separated, when Miss Bingley came towards her, and with an expression of civil disdain accosted her  So, Miss Eliza, I hear you are quite delighted with George Wickham!
dickens|Am I, grandpapas granddaughter, to be nothing in the house?
dickens|But presently I looked over my shoulder, and saw him going on again towards the river, still hugging himself in both arms, and picking his way with his sore feet among the great stones dropped into the marshes here and there, for steppingplaces when the rains were heavy or the tide was in.
austen|It is not that I do not believe my fingers as capable as any other womans of superior execution.
dickens|No whitehaired man was there now; but, the three men were there who had gone out of the wineshop singly.
austen|It is just what I used to say to a certain gentleman in company in the days of courtship, when, because things did not go quite right, did not proceed with all the rapidity which suited his feelings, he was apt to be in despair, and exclaim that he was sure at this rate it would be May before Hymens saffron robe would be put on for us.
dickens|He will start upon his journey tomorrow night.
austen|In a softened tone she declared herself not at all offended; but he continued to apologise for about a quarter of an hour.
dickens|Her mother died when she was a baby, and her father denied her nothing.
austen|About ten or a dozen years ago, before her marriage, she had spent a considerable time in that very part of Derbyshire to which he belonged.
dickens|In all weathers, in the snow and frost of winter, in the bitter winds of spring, in the hot sunshine of summer, in the rains of autumn, and again in the snow and frost of winter, Lucie passed two hours of every day at this place; and every day on leaving it, she kissed the prison wall.
austen|To this Mary very gravely replied, Far be it from me, my dear sister, to depreciate such pleasures!
dickens|After a prolonged absence at this stage of the entertainment, he at length came back with a casket of precious appearance containing twigs.
dickens|This ladys name was Mrs Coiler, and I had the honor of taking her down to dinner on the day of my installation.
austen|I really cannot laugh at it.
dickens|And on the ground beside her, when Joe picked her up, was a convicts legiron which had been filed asunder.
austen|Without knowing when the carriage turned into Vicarage Lane, or when it stopped, they found themselves, all at once, at the door of his house; and he was out before another syllable passed.
austen|Id rather you would.
austen|She had always felt that Charlottes opinion of matrimony was not exactly like her own, but she had not supposed it to be possible that, when called into action, she would have sacrificed every better feeling to worldly advantage.
dickens|Theres them that cant and that wont have Magwitch,yes, I know the name!
austen|And the same may be said of Mrs JeffereysClara Partridge, that wasand of the two Milmans, now Mrs Bird and Mrs James Cooper; and of more than I can enumerate.
austen|And as to my father, I never in my life saw him so affected.
dickens|And our old comrade, Startop!
dickens|But now about this other matter.
dickens|I was aware that Mr Wopsle had not succeeded in reviving the Drama, but, on the contrary, had rather partaken of its decline.
dickens|She might think it was contrived, in case of the worse, to convey to him the means of anticipating the sentence.
austen|Selina says it is quite horror to herand I believe I have caught a little of her nicety.
austen|After Emma had talked about it for ten minutes, Mr Woodhouse felt no unwillingness, and only made the usual stipulation of not sitting at the bottom of the table himself, with the usual regular difficulty of deciding who should do it for him.
dickens|Have you anything to ask me?
austen|A line from me would bring you a little host of acquaintance; and my particular friend, Mrs Partridge, the lady I have always resided with when in Bath, would be most happy to shew you any attentions, and would be the very person for you to go into public with.
dickens|Suffer them and forbid them not.
dickens|His manner was so final, and I was so astonished, that I followed where he led, as if I had been under a spell.
dickens|Jaggers, interposed Miss Havisham, much to my relief, leave my Pip alone, and go with him to your dinner.
austen|But now that my dear uncle is come, I hope everything will be well.
austen|There is to be no form or paradea sort of gipsy party.
austen|I thought I knew him.
austen|But I will not torment you with vain wishes, which may seem purposely to ask for your thanks.
austen|That was the windup of the history; that was the glory of Miss Hawkins.
austen|I have not a word to say for the bit of old pencil, but the courtplaister might be useful.
dickens|He may wear his head or lose it, for any interest I have in him; it is all one to me.
austen|Twice has she condescended to give me her opinion unasked too!
dickens|And I observed, with great surprise, that he devoted it to staring in my direction as if he were lost in amazement.
dickens|Miss Pross and he divided the night into two watches, and observed him at intervals from the adjoining room.
austen|Your feelings are singular.
dickens|It was a large, dark room, furnished in a funereal manner with black horsehair, and loaded with heavy dark tables.
austen|By Jane, this attention was received with the greatest pleasure, but Elizabeth still saw superciliousness in their treatment of everybody, hardly excepting even her sister, and could not like them; though their kindness to Jane, such as it was, had a value as arising in all probability from the influence of their brothers admiration.
austen|It was a sad change.
dickens|The house belonged to a great nobleman who had lived in it until he made a flight from the troubles, in his own cooks dress, and got across the borders.
dickens|To think, said Mr Pumblechook, after snorting admiration at me for some moments, that I should have been the humble instrument of leading up to this, is a proud reward.
dickens|Light Monsieur my nephew to his chamber there!
austen|Better than she ever used to do?
dickens|Rum, repeated the stranger.
dickens|I saw in this, wretched though it made me, and bitter the sense of dependence and even of degradation that it awakened,I saw in this that Estella was set to wreak Miss Havishams revenge on men, and that she was not to be given to me until she had gratified it for a term.
dickens|Well!
austen|Her affections had continually been fluctuating but never without an object.
austen|She had very little notice from any but him.
austen|She now lost every expectation of pleasure.
dickens|Lucie!
austen|I hope your plans in favour of the shire will not be affected by his being in the neighbourhood.
austen|Her observation had been pretty correct.
dickens|So furious had been the gusts, that high buildings in town had had the lead stripped off their roofs; and in the country, trees had been torn up, and sails of windmills carried away; and gloomy accounts had come in from the coast, of shipwreck and death.
dickens|He looked down at the floor on either side of him in the old manner, looked up in the old manner, and repeated in the old low voice  Out?
austen|Very true, he gravely replied; it was very bad.
austen|Take care, Lizzy; that speech savours strongly of disappointment.
austen|And is it really true?
austen|I shall have her very often indeed while they are with me, and I dare say we shall sometimes find a seat for her in the barouchelandau in some of our exploring parties.
dickens|Well!
dickens|Adieu, Mr Barsad, said the former; our arrangement thus made, you have nothing to fear from me.
austen|Miss Bennet he acknowledged to be pretty, but she smiled too much.
austen|He looked rather doubtinglyrather confused; said something about honour,glanced at Emma and at Harriet, and then seeing the book open on the table, took it up, and examined it very attentively.
dickens|The last word was flung at the boy, who had not the least notion what it meant.
dickens|He looked it out from a handful of small change, folded it in some crumpled paper, and gave it to me.
austen|Poor girl!
austen|There can scarcely be a doubt that her father is a gentlemanand a gentleman of fortune.
austen|My father bears it better.
austen|Young ladies should take care of themselves.
austen|Will he, indeed?
austen|I certainly have had my share of beauty, but I do not pretend to be anything extraordinary now.
dickens|Whether it was a son who would some day avenge his father.
dickens|She saw me looking at it, and she said, You could drink without hurt all the strong beer thats brewed there now, boy.
austen|Time, she knew, must be allowed for this being thoroughly done; and she could suppose herself but an indifferent judge of such matters in general, and very inadequate to sympathise in an attachment to Mr Elton in particular; but it seemed to her reasonable that at Harriets age, and with the entire extinction of all hope, such a progress might be made towards a state of composure by the time of Mr Eltons return, as to allow them all to meet again in the common routine of acquaintance, without any danger of betraying sentiments or increasing them.
austen|Do you suppose them to be in London?
dickens|Wheres your mother?
austen|Give me further particulars.
dickens|With this uneasiness half stifled, and half reproaching him, he had been brought to the pointed comparison of himself with the brave old gentleman in whom duty was so strong; upon that comparison injurious to himself had instantly followed the sneers of Monseigneur, which had stung him bitterly, and those of Stryver, which above all were coarse and galling, for old reasons.
dickens|What is this?
dickens|You fall into that habit, and then who notices or minds?
dickens|Give me half a minute, please.
austen|To be sure we do, cried his father; Mrs Bateswe passed her houseI saw Miss Bates at the window.
austen|She continued to look back, but in vain; and soon, with what appeared unusual speed, they were half way down the hill, and every thing left far behind.
dickens|A bearleader, a popular street character of the time, was impressed as an additional ornament, before the cavalcade had gone far down the Strand; and his bear, who was black and very mangy, gave quite an Undertaking air to that part of the procession in which he walked.
austen|Had Elizabeth been at leisure to be idle, she would have remained certain that all employment was impossible to one so wretched as herself; but she had her share of business as well as her aunt, and amongst the rest there were notes to be written to all their friends at Lambton, with false excuses for their sudden departure.
austen|He is as happy as possible by himself; with his farm, and his sheep, and his library, and all the parish to manage; and he is extremely fond of his brothers children.
austen|The very thing that we have always been rather afraid of; for we should not have liked to have her at such a distance from us, for months togethernot able to come if any thing was to happen.
dickens|and laughed.
austen|I will take care of myself, and of Mr Wickham too.
austen|Such a beautiful hindquarter of pork!
dickens|But, he feigned not to notice the two strangers, and fell into discourse with the triumvirate of customers who were drinking at the counter.
austen|I declare I cannot recollect what I was talking of.
austen|It was a great consolation that Mr Elton should not be really in love with her, or so particularly amiable as to make it shocking to disappoint himthat Harriets nature should not be of that superior sort in which the feelings are most acute and retentiveand that there could be no necessity for any bodys knowing what had passed except the three principals, and especially for her fathers being given a moments uneasiness about it.
dickens|What man is that?
austen|They were off Saturday night about twelve, as is conjectured, but were not missed till yesterday morning at eight.
austen|It will be no use to us, if twenty such should come, since you will not visit them.
dickens|No, returned Wemmick.
austen|Poor Harriet was in a flutter of spirits which required all the reasonings and soothings and attentions of every kind that Emma could give.
dickens|A good fellow, a skilled hand, fond of us, and enthusiastic and honorable.
austen|I have really for some time past, for at least these three months, cared nothing about him.
austen|If he means to be but little at Netherfield, it would be better for the neighbourhood that he should give up the place entirely, for then we might possibly get a settled family there.
dickens|I cant do so, Mr Pip, said Biddy, in a tone of regret but still of quiet conviction.
dickens|Not of late years.
austen|Well, and how did Mr Churchill take it?
austen|She felt its inconsistency; but Mr Knightley was so obliging as to put up with it, and seek no farther explanation.
austen|If it were love, it might be simple, single, successless love on her side alone.
austen|Her friends evidently thought this good enough for her; and it was good enough.
dickens|But the thing is, said Herbert Pocket, that you look about you.
dickens|Come, come!
austen|The brothers talked of their own concerns and pursuits, but principally of those of the elder, whose temper was by much the most communicative, and who was always the greater talker.
dickens|And I must consult you a little more, as I used to do.
dickens|Back to the Conciergerie, and Death within fourandtwenty hours!
austen|He does not care about Jane Fairfax.
dickens|This shocks me very much.
dickens|I had first seen him when I sent for him to lay this place waste for me; having read of him in the newspapers, before I and the world parted.
dickens|The preparations for my marriage are making, and I shall be married soon.
austen|What does all that signify?
dickens|The door was quickly opened and closed, and there stood before him face to face, quiet, intent upon him, with the light of a smile on his features, and a cautionary finger on his lip, Sydney Carton.
dickens|Here, they were shown into a little room, where Charles Darnay was soon recruiting his strength with a good plain dinner and good wine while Carton sat opposite to him at the same table, with his separate bottle of port before him, and his fully halfinsolent manner upon him.
dickens|It was cruel, cruel!
austen|It must not be thought of.
dickens|Whom have we here?
dickens|Yes, he came to the same end; quite the natural end here, I assure you.
austen|No, said Mr Knightley, nearly at the same time; you are not often deficient; not often deficient either in manner or comprehension.
austen|Very well.
dickens|I had a ridiculous fancy that he must be with you, Mr Pip, till I saw that you were quite unconscious of him, sitting behind you there like a ghost.
austen|Supposing even that they had never become intimate friends; that she had never been admitted into Miss Fairfaxs confidence on this important matterwhich was most probablestill, in knowing her as she ought, and as she might, she must have been preserved from the abominable suspicions of an improper attachment to Mr Dixon, which she had not only so foolishly fashioned and harboured herself, but had so unpardonably imparted; an idea which she greatly feared had been made a subject of material distress to the delicacy of Janes feelings, by the levity or carelessness of Frank Churchills.
austen|He is, indeed; but, considering the inducement, my dear Miss Eliza, we cannot wonder at his complaisancefor who would object to such a partner?
dickens|But you are coming back to dinner, Joe?
austen|There was no reason to suppose Mr Elton thought at all differently from his wife.
austen|But you know what I am.
austen|It was but a very few days before I had my sore throatjust before Mr and Mrs John Knightley cameI think the very evening.
dickens|Pip, maam.
dickens|You must have been under lock and key, dear boy, to know it equal to me,but I aint a going to be low.
dickens|What is your real name?
dickens|He and his books were in frequent requisition as to property confiscated and made national.
austen|So Frank writes word.
dickens|We always derived profound satisfaction from making an appointment for this purpose.
dickens|Bust me if I dont think hed been a drinking!
austen|I had a few lines on parish business from Mr Weston this morning, and at the end of them he gave me a brief account of what had happened.
dickens|Again I thanked him and apologized, and again he said in the cheerfullest manner, Not at all, I am sure!
austen|Are you consulting your own feelings in the present case, or do you imagine that you are gratifying mine?
dickens|Certainly!
austen|And I see very few pearls in the room except mine.
dickens|Thinknot of me, but of the lives that may depend on both of us!
dickens|returned Wemmick.
dickens|Has her keeper been for her?
dickens|See to it, Gabelle.
austen|in a tone of wonder and pity, I had no idea that the law had been so great a slavery.
austen|The party was rather large, as it included one other family, a proper unobjectionable country family, whom the Coles had the advantage of naming among their acquaintance, and the male part of Mr Coxs family, the lawyer of Highbury.
austen|I thought him very plain at first, but I do not think him so plain now.
austen|She wanted to talk, but there seemed to be an embargo on every subject.
dickens|Heres a ring!
dickens|They must not be confounded together.
austen|If I had been there, I think I should have made some discoveries.
dickens|Defarge stood, panting, against a background of eager eyes and open mouths, formed outside the door; all those within the wineshop had sprung to their feet.
dickens|And, O my dearest Love!
austen|You can now have nothing further to say, she resentfully answered.
austen|Perhaps it is as well, said Frank Churchill, as he attended Emma to her carriage.
austen|It was not unlikely, she thought, that she might see Mr Knightley in her way; or, perhaps, he might come in while she were paying her visit.
austen|I congratulate her.
dickens|Next to her preservation of his own last grateful love and blessing, and her overcoming of her sorrow, to devote herself to their dear child, he adjured her, as they would meet in Heaven, to comfort her father.
dickens|No bringing up by hand then.
austen|We do not suffer by accident.
dickens|Have the goodness to give me a little glass of old cognac, and a mouthful of cool fresh water, madame.
austen|As Mrs Gardiner began to wish to be at home, it was settled that she and the children should go to London, at the same time that Mr Bennet came from it.
dickens|What is that in your hand?
dickens|Says it with his head on!
dickens|It was appointed that the water should be locked in an eternal frost, when the light was playing on its surface, and I stood in ignorance on the shore.
austen|If therefore she actually persists in rejecting my suit, perhaps it were better not to force her into accepting me, because if liable to such defects of temper, she could not contribute much to my felicity.
dickens|And two?
austen|Some acquaintance or other, my dear, I suppose; I am sure I do not know.
dickens|No more can I look into the depths of this unfathomable water, wherein, as momentary lights glanced into it, I have had glimpses of buried treasure and other things submerged.
austen|Mr Darcy said very little, and Mr Hurst nothing at all.
dickens|Look the thing in the face.
dickens|It is the fashion, growled the man.
dickens|Say a good fellow, if you want a phrase, returned Herbert, smiling, and clapping his hand on the back of minea good fellow, with impetuosity and hesitation, boldness and diffidence, action and dreaming, curiously mixed in him.
austen|Emma remained in a state of vexation too; but there was more indistinctness in the causes of hers, than in his.
dickens|I am extremely sorry to see this in you, Biddy, I repeated.
dickens|I dont know that you never will.
dickens|It is Defarge, said madame.
austen|She was your governess, I think?
dickens|What item was it you were at, Wemmick, when Mr Pip came in?
dickens|It seemed to be so; for, when I stopped speaking, many moments passed before she showed that she was conscious of the fact.
austen|She is very fond of Frank, and therefore I would not speak ill of her.
austen|But at present there was nothing more to be said.
dickens|We were up early.
dickens|My husband, the forester.
dickens|repeated madame, contemptuously and angrily.
austen|And so I am not to be surprized that Jane Fairfax accepts her civilities and consents to be with her.
austen|My brother and sister have promised us a visit in the spring, or summer at farthest, continued Mrs Elton; and that will be our time for exploring.
dickens|The fashion of the last Louis but one, of the line that was never to breakthe fourteenth Louiswas conspicuous in their rich furniture; but, it was diversified by many objects that were illustrations of old pages in the history of France.
dickens|This encouraged Mr Lorry to have Miss Pross in with her work, several times during the day; at those times, they quietly spoke of Lucie, and of her father then present, precisely in the usual manner, and as if there were nothing amiss.
austen|Perhaps he thought her too young.
austen|He was silent.
dickens|Chucked em overboard.
dickens|Thats the state of the case, for that much Ive seen myself.
dickens|Now, whos next?
dickens|I have not heard the particulars of my sisters death, Biddy.
dickens|Hush!
austen|I am amazed that you should think of such a thing.
dickens|No!
austen|said he; that is rather singular.
austen|I think very well of Mr Elton, and this is the only way I have of doing him a service.
dickens|When that person discloses, said Mr Jaggers, straightening himself, you and that person will settle your own affairs.
dickens|Can you see his signal?
dickens|If that should happen soon, he kept another course in reserve; which was, to have a certain opinion that he thought the best, on the Doctors case.
dickens|the near leader violently shook his head and everything upon itlike an unusually emphatic horse, denying that the coach could be got up the hill.
dickens|God knows youre welcome to it,so far as it was ever mine, returned Joe, with a saving remembrance of Mrs Joe.
dickens|I beg your pardon.
dickens|Ill accept the will for the deed, said Wemmick.
dickens|She and her father would unquestionably be guilty of this crime, and this woman the inveteracy of whose pursuit cannot be described would wait to add that strength to her case, and make herself doubly sure.
dickens|Having made, at least, this one hit, whatever it might prove to be worth, and no customers coming in to help him to any other, Mr Barsad paid for what he had drunk, and took his leave taking occasion to say, in a genteel manner, before he departed, that he looked forward to the pleasure of seeing Monsieur and Madame Defarge again.
austen|Indeed, Mr Bennet, said she, it is very hard to think that Charlotte Lucas should ever be mistress of this house, that I should be forced to make way for her, and live to see her take her place in it!
austen|As that was the case, neither Jane, to whom I related the whole, nor I, thought it necessary to make our knowledge public; for of what use could it apparently be to any one, that the good opinion which all the neighbourhood had of him should then be overthrown?
dickens|A beautiful landscape, with the corn bright in it, but not abundant.
dickens|And not for money.
dickens|She looked so beautiful in the purity of her faith in this lost man, that her husband could have looked at her as she was for hours.
dickens|I am saying nothing.
austen|His ostensible reason, however, was to ask whether Mr Woodhouses party could be made up in the evening without him, or whether he should be in the smallest degree necessary at Hartfield.
austen|I dare say, Miss Fairfax, that he either gave his friend very minute directions, or wrote to Broadwood himself.
dickens|At that time jails were much neglected, and the period of exaggerated reaction consequent on all public wrongdoingand which is always its heaviest and longest punishmentwas still far off.
austen|Frank Churchill caught the name.
dickens|Remembering then, that the staircaselights were blown out, I took up my readinglamp and went out to the stairhead.
austen|She tried, however, to compose herself to answer him with patience, when he should have done.
dickens|Compeyson took it easy as a good riddance for both sides.
austen|They can only wish his happiness; and if he is attached to me, no other woman can secure it.
austen|She became jealous of his esteem, when she could no longer hope to be benefited by it.
austen|But it should be so no more.
dickens|The mill which had worked them down, was the mill that grinds young people old; the children had ancient faces and grave voices; and upon them, and upon the grown faces, and ploughed into every furrow of age and coming up afresh, was the sigh, Hunger.
dickens|He saw that the spy was fearful of his drinking himself into a fit state for the immediate denunciation of him.
dickens|With a long breath, he answered Yes.
austen|It could not be for society, as he frequently sat there ten minutes together without opening his lips; and when he did speak, it seemed the effect of necessity rather than of choicea sacrifice to propriety, not a pleasure to himself.
dickens|When the quiet of the garret had been long undisturbed, and his heaving breast and shaken form had long yielded to the calm that must follow all stormsemblem to humanity, of the rest and silence into which the storm called Life must hush at lastthey came forward to raise the father and daughter from the ground.
austen|I have no reason to think ill of hernot the leastexcept that such extreme and perpetual cautiousness of word and manner, such a dread of giving a distinct idea about any body, is apt to suggest suspicions of there being something to conceal.
austen|Nobody talked about it.
dickens|Coming up again to the marsh level out of this excavation,for the rude path lay through it,I saw a light in the old sluicehouse.
austen|His spirits required support.
dickens|Lastly, as he had not yet been seen by the laundress or her niece, he was to keep himself out of their view until his change of dress was made.
austen|Tis as good as a Lord!
dickens|There was a bar at the Jolly Bargemen, with some alarmingly long chalk scores in it on the wall at the side of the door, which seemed to me to be never paid off.
dickens|It is impossible to overstate the vividness of these images, and yet I was so intent, all the time, upon him himself,who would not be intent on the tiger crouching to spring!
austen|She would have ordered the carriage, and come to you, but she must see you alone, and that you knownodding towards her fatherHumph!
austen|She retreated from the window, fearful of being seen; and as she walked up and down the room, endeavouring to compose herself, saw such looks of inquiring surprise in her uncle and aunt as made everything worse.
austen|If the dispositions of the parties are ever so well known to each other or ever so similar beforehand, it does not advance their felicity in the least.
dickens|But it is very strangenow, at least, is it not very strangesaid Defarge, rather pleading with his wife to induce her to admit it, that, after all our sympathy for Monsieur her father, and herself, her husbands name should be proscribed under your hand at this moment, by the side of that infernal dogs who has just left us?
austen|She was then obliged to be finished, and make her appearance.
austen|Do not distress me by the idea.
dickens|But, invested for the moment with extraordinary power, he raised himself completely obliging me to rise too, or I could not have still supported him.
austen|It had a high claim to forbearance.
dickens|And what thick boots!
dickens|My sister had been standing silent in the yard, within hearing,she was a most unscrupulous spy and listener,and she instantly looked in at one of the windows.
dickens|I felt that this delicacy arose out of the consideration that the plan would save Herbert some expense, so I went off to Little Britain and imparted my wish to Mr Jaggers.
austen|Nay, I had it from you.
austen|She held out her hand; he kissed it with affectionate gallantry, though he hardly knew how to look, and they entered the house.
austen|I cannot keep my eyes from it.
austen|The kindness of my uncle and aunt can never be requited.
austen|Harriet was very seldom mentioned between them.
austen|Pleasant rides?
austen|They were sneering and negligent.
dickens|Then why go into subjects, old chap, which as betwixt two sech must be for ever onnecessary?
dickens|He asked the question with some appearance of scorn.
austen|Mary had neither genius nor taste; and though vanity had given her application, it had given her likewise a pedantic air and conceited manner, which would have injured a higher degree of excellence than she had reached.
dickens|Which dear old Pip, old chap, said Joe, you and me was ever friends.
austen|The word home made his father look on him with fresh complacency.
dickens|So, by degrees he calmed into the better state, when he could raise his thoughts much higher, and draw comfort down.
austen|Perhaps it was not fair to expect him to feel how very much he was her inferior in talent, and all the elegancies of mind.
austen|You allude, perhaps, to the entail of this estate.
austen|the amiable, obliging, gentle Mr Elton.
austen|One cannot wonder that so very fine a young man, with family, fortune, everything in his favour, should think highly of himself.
dickens|Presently a dark object was seen in it, bearing towards us on the tide.
dickens|The sagacity of the man of business perceived an advantage here, and determined to hold it.
austen|My object has been to secure an amiable companion for myself, with due consideration for the advantage of all your family, and if my manner has been at all reprehensible, I here beg leave to apologise.
dickens|Love, replied the other.
dickens|I am sure I tried to serve you, with all my heart.
austen|Kitty, a fair but frozen maid.
dickens|In the outermost room were half a dozen exceptional people who had had, for a few years, some vague misgiving in them that things in general were going rather wrong.
dickens|The Doctor had taken care that it should be therehad assured him that it would be thereand at this stage of the proceedings it was produced and read.
austen|Which you know shewed him to be so very....
austen|But she is too much like her brothervery, very proud.
dickens|There, they found two women; one, knitting.
dickens|Still, however you have found me out, there must be something good in the feeling that has brought you here, and I will not repulse you; but surely you must understand thatI  My attention was so attracted by the singularity of his fixed look at me, that the words died away on my tongue.
austen|Are you sure?
dickens|I have not proposed to the young lady, and, between ourselves, I am by no means certain, on reflection, that I ever should have committed myself to that extent.
austen|My dear, you do not understand me.
dickens|This will pass in no time.
dickens|Twelve gone for ever.
austen|But Georgiana would not join her.
austen|Elizabeth could not repress a smile at this, but she answered only by a slight inclination of the head.
dickens|They must have been easily satisfied in those days, I should think.
dickens|Yes, master, and Ive never been in it much.
dickens|But, the moon was a good two hours higher than when I had last seen the sky, and the night, though rainy, was much lighter.
dickens|The clerk and clergyman then appearing, we were ranged in order at those fatal rails.
austen|Between the two eldest and herself especially, there subsisted a particular regard.
dickens|In short, said Sydney, this is a desperate time, when desperate games are played for desperate stakes.
austen|Mr Weston was following; but Mrs Elton detained him, to gratify him by her opinion of his son; and so briskly did she begin, that the young man himself, though by no means moving slowly, could hardly be out of hearing.
austen|I will answer for it, he never cared three straws about herwho could about such a nasty little freckled thing?
austen|I do not know.
austen|Jane, Jane, you will be a miserable creature.
dickens|Dear Biddy, said I, you have the best husband in the whole world, and if you could have seen him by my bed you would haveBut no, you couldnt love him better than you do.
dickens|Well?
austen|The principal purport of his letter was to inform them that Mr Wickham had resolved on quitting the militia.
dickens|If I could buy the furniture now hired for me, said I, and one or two other little things, I should be quite at home there.
austen|But still I cannot imagine she would not be persuaded.
austen|This was her history; and particularly interesting it was to Mr Woodhouse, who commended her very much for thinking of sending for Perry, and only regretted that she had not done it.
austen|Has he, has my nephew, made you an offer of marriage?
dickens|And Biddy, shes ever right and ready.
austen|I have met with two instances lately, one I will not mention; the other is Charlottes marriage.
dickens|I had never seen any one then, and I have never seen any one since, who more strongly expressed to me, in every look and tone, a natural incapacity to do anything secret and mean.
dickens|Following the wall of the jail, I found the roadway covered with straw to deaden the noise of passing vehicles; and from this, and from the quantity of people standing about smelling strongly of spirits and beer, I inferred that the trials were on.
dickens|Again, as if by agreement, they looked at one another with one meaning in their faces.
dickens|For I called to mind now, that she was equally accomplished in the terms of our trade, and the names of our different sorts of work, and our various tools.
dickens|said Mr Cruncher, with signs of angry apprehension.
austen|Do you think him so very plain?
austen|What strength, or what constancy of affection he might be subject to, was another point; but at present she could not doubt his having a decidedly warm admiration, a conscious preference of herself; and this persuasion, joined to all the rest, made her think that she must be a little in love with him, in spite of every previous determination against it.
austen|Now Emma was obliged to think of the pianoforte; and the remembrance of all her former fanciful and unfair conjectures was so little pleasing, that she soon allowed herself to believe her visit had been long enough; and, with a repetition of every thing that she could venture to say of the good wishes which she really felt, took leave.
austen|They remained but a few minutes together, as Miss Woodhouse must not be kept waiting; and Harriet then came running to her with a smiling face, and in a flutter of spirits, which Miss Woodhouse hoped very soon to compose.
austen|Lizzy, my dear, run down to your father, and ask him how much he will give her.
austen|She is all affability and condescension, and I doubt not but you will be honoured with some portion of her notice when service is over.
austen|There is a mixture of servility and selfimportance in his letter, which promises well.
austen|She is a very finelooking woman!
austen|He would be always coming over.
austen|Poor Mr Woodhouse was silent from consternation; but every body else had something to say; every body was either surprized or not surprized, and had some question to ask, or some comfort to offer.
dickens|Though its not important, repeated Carton, in the same mechanical waythough its not importantNo, its not important.
austen|She never could have deserved himand nobody but so partial and kind a friend as Miss Woodhouse would have thought it possible.
austen|The more I see of the world, the more am I dissatisfied with it; and every day confirms my belief of the inconsistency of all human characters, and of the little dependence that can be placed on the appearance of merit or sense.
dickens|Two gaolers, who had been standing there, went out, and the prisoner was brought in, and put to the bar.
dickens|Barbarous!
austen|I will hear whatever you like.
dickens|From my point of view, he was the wrong twin all the time, and only externally like the Wemmick of Walworth.
dickens|said he.
austen|He never can bear to be thanked.
austen|He looked with smiling penetration; and, on receiving no answer, added, She ought not to be angry with you, I suspect, whatever he may be.
dickens|said I.
austen|So scrupulous for others, he continued, and yet so careless for herself!
austen|Then, if you please, you shall send it all to Mrs GoddardsI do not knowNo, I think, Miss Woodhouse, I may just as well have it sent to Hartfield, and take it home with me at night.
dickens|I believe, said the spy, dropping his soft voice to a tone that invited confidence, and expressing an injured revolutionary susceptibility in every muscle of his wicked face I believe there is much compassion and anger in this neighbourhood, touching the poor fellow?
austen|Pray, Emma, said he, may I ask in what lay the great amusement, the poignant sting of the last word given to you and Miss Fairfax?
dickens|The Concord bedchamber being always assigned to a passenger by the mail, and passengers by the mail being always heavily wrapped up from head to foot, the room had the odd interest for the establishment of the Royal George, that although but one kind of man was seen to go into it, all kinds and varieties of men came out of it.
dickens|I cannot say whether any diseased affection of the heart caused her lips to be parted as if she were panting, and her face to bear a curious expression of suddenness and flutter; but I know that I had been to see Macbeth at the theatre, a night or two before, and that her face looked to me as if it were all disturbed by fiery air, like the faces I had seen rise out of the Witches caldron.
dickens|The closet whispered, the fireplace sighed, the little washingstand ticked, and one guitarstring played occasionally in the chest of drawers.
austen|My dear, said I, you will blind yourselffor tears were in her eyes perpetually.
dickens|Confused, but sensible that something might depend on his presence of mind, he commanded himself, and was silently attentive.
austen|She is an odd woman!
dickens|This is the man.
austen|Emma, said Mr Knightley presently, I have a piece of news for you.
dickens|Wretched boy!
dickens|We went down on the next day but one, and we found her in the room where I had first beheld her, and it is needless to add that there was no change in Satis House.
austen|Who could have thought it?
austen|returned Mr Knightley, with energy.
dickens|I remember I entertained a great objection to your adversary, because I took it ill that he should be brought here to pester me with his company.
austen|Well, said she to herself, this is most strange!
dickens|I got into the carriage to be taken back to Hammersmith, and I got in with a bad heartache, and I got out with a worse heartache.
dickens|Nothing more.
dickens|You remember a certain famous occasion when I was more drunk thanthan usual?
dickens|He didnt call it a particularly curious coincidence; most coincidences were curious.
austen|The next morning brought Mr Frank Churchill again.
dickens|Without going near it yourself, you could always hear of the safety of Tom, Jack, or Richard, through Mr Herbert.
austen|As soon as I am cooler I shall go back again.
austen|What shall I say?
austen|It must have been a most agreeable surprise to Mr Bingley to see you all after him so soon; for, if I recollect right, he went but the day before.
dickens|Theyll do it, if theres anything to be got by it.
austen|Mr Wickham did not play at whist, and with ready delight was he received at the other table between Elizabeth and Lydia.
dickens|At first, his mind reverted to Defarge, and he thought of finding out the wineshop again and taking counsel with its master in reference to the safest dwellingplace in the distracted state of the city.
dickens|Forced my brother to draw upon him, and has fallen by my brothers swordlike a gentleman.
austen|Mr Weston will be almost as much relieved as myself, said she.
austen|My dear sir, if there is one thing my mother loves better than another, it is porka roast loin of pork  As to who, or what Miss Hawkins is, or how long he has been acquainted with her, said Emma, nothing I suppose can be known.
austen|It was a sad eventa great shockwith all her faults, what would Mr Churchill do without her?
dickens|Then he lifted himself up hard, and was dead.
dickens|The idea of its being you!
austen|I dare say you have heard those charming lines of the poet,          Full many a flower is born to blush unseen,           And waste its fragrance on the desert air.
dickens|asked madame, vacantly.
dickens|And yet this man was dressed in coarse gray, too, and had a great iron on his leg, and was lame, and hoarse, and cold, and was everything that the other man was; except that he had not the same face, and had a flat broadbrimmed lowcrowned felt hat on.
dickens|I look to the pleasure of seeing you again in the morning.
dickens|I knew, said Defarge, looking down at his wife, who stood at the bottom of the steps on which he was raised, looking steadily up at him; I knew that this prisoner, of whom I speak, had been confined in a cell known as One Hundred and Five, North Tower.
dickens|Yes.
dickens|For tomorrow!
austen|These were claims which he did not learn to overlook, though some years passed away from the death of poor Fairfax, before his own return to England put any thing in his power.
dickens|Many added that he looked sublime and prophetic.
austen|Elizabeth could but just affect concern in missing him; she really rejoiced at it.
dickens|With her character thus happily formed, in the first bloom of her youth she had encountered Mr Pocket who was also in the first bloom of youth, and not quite decided whether to mount to the Woolsack, or to roof himself in with a mitre.
dickens|Youve got a dutiful mother, you have, my son.
austen|And he smiled with such seeming pleasure at the conviction, that she must proceed another step.
dickens|No one has told me so, said Defarge, shaking his head.
dickens|Wemmick nodded.
austen|Do you?
austen|It ought to be no recommendation to you.
dickens|The strange gentleman beckoned him out of his place, and Joe went.
dickens|But I hope, said the gentleman, following the chief gaoler with his eyes, who moved across the room, that you are not in secret?
austen|A cold stormy rain set in, and nothing of July appeared but in the trees and shrubs, which the wind was despoiling, and the length of the day, which only made such cruel sights the longer visible.
austen|I shall sit by you.
austen|They were in fact very fine ladies; not deficient in good humour when they were pleased, nor in the power of making themselves agreeable when they chose it, but proud and conceited.
austen|Can such abominable pride as his have ever done him good?
austen|You are his objectand you will soon receive the completest proof of it.
dickens|It were yesterday afternoon with an appearance of mingled wisdom, relief, and strict impartiality.
dickens|Whether his meditations on mortality had touched his liver, or whether his general health had been previously at all amiss, or whether he desired to show a little attention to an eminent man, is not so much to the purpose, as that he made a short call upon his medical advisera distinguished surgeonon his way back.
dickens|He turned the dialogue to that point, and thanked him for it.
dickens|When they were all gone, and when Trabb and his menbut not his Boy; I looked for himhad crammed their mummery into bags, and were gone too, the house felt wholesomer.
austen|By all means, cried Bingley; let us hear all the particulars, not forgetting their comparative height and size; for that will have more weight in the argument, Miss Bennet, than you may be aware of.
dickens|She watched his countenance as if she were particularly wishful to be assured that he took kindly to his reception, she showed every possible desire to conciliate him, and there was an air of humble propitiation in all she did, such as I have seen pervade the bearing of a child towards a hard master.
austen|It was a union to distance every wonder of the kind.
austen|She seemed to propose shewing no agitation, or disappointment, or peculiar concern in the discovery.
austen|The business of her life was to get her daughters married; its solace was visiting and news.
dickens|Mr Drummle, said I, you are not competent to give advice on that subject.
austen|My child, let me not have the grief of seeing you unable to respect your partner in life.
austen|Mr Woodhouse talked over his alarms, and Emma was in spirits to persuade them away with all her usual promptitude.
dickens|There could not be fewer than five hundred people, and they were dancing like five thousand demons.
dickens|Flopson, by dint of doubling the baby at the joints like a Dutch doll, then got it safely into Mrs Pockets lap, and gave it the nutcrackers to play with; at the same time recommending Mrs Pocket to take notice that the handles of that instrument were not likely to agree with its eyes, and sharply charging Miss Jane to look after the same.
dickens|If she wounds you, love her.
austen|She did not do any of it in the same way that she used; I could see she was altered; but, however, she seemed to try to be very friendly, and we shook hands, and stood talking some time; but I know no more what I saidI was in such a tremble!
austen|About a fortnight after the alarm, they came to a sufficient explanation, and quite undesignedly.
austen|How does Georgiana get on, Darcy?
austen|She admired him for contriving it, though not able to give him much credit for the manner in which it was announced.
dickens|Havent you lost enough without that?
dickens|I am afraid I was ashamed of the dear good fellow,I know I was ashamed of him,when I saw that Estella stood at the back of Miss Havishams chair, and that her eyes laughed mischievously.
dickens|What am I thinking of!
dickens|cried Mr Lorry, rather relenting, nevertheless, I am shocked at the sight of you.
austen|She was overpowered by shame and vexation.
dickens|Then, he took a live coal from the fire with the tongs, and lighted his pipe at it, and then turned round on the hearthrug with his back to the fire, and went through his favorite action of holding out both his hands for mine.
dickens|Do you, Mr Pip?
austen|Mr Knightley seemed to be trying not to smile; and succeeded without difficulty, upon Mrs Eltons beginning to talk to him.
dickens|said Estella, to know what satisfaction it gives me to see those people thwarted, or what an enjoyable sense of the ridiculous I have when they are made ridiculous.
austen|And pray, may I ask?
dickens|Whatll you drink, Mr?
dickens|And when I come away from him, you know that my thoughts are with him.
austen|I have now a key to all her odd looks and ways.
austen|You and I must part.
austen|But, she continued, recollecting herself, as we know none of the particulars, it is not fair to condemn him.
austen|My feelings will not be repressed.
dickens|Mr Jaggers shook his head,not in negativing the question, but in altogether negativing the notion that he could anyhow be got to answer it,and the two horrible casts of the twitched faces looked, when my eyes strayed up to them, as if they had come to a crisis in their suspended attention, and were going to sneeze.
dickens|Saint Antoine slept, the Defarges slept even The Vengeance slept with her starved grocer, and the drum was at rest.
dickens|Yet, a doubt lurks in my mind, Miss Pross, whether it is good for Doctor Manette to have that suppression always shut up within him.
austen|Caroline decidedly says that none of the party will return into Hertfordshire this winter.
dickens|Would you like to see em?
dickens|So, hed come with a most tremenjous crowd and make such a row at the doors of the houses where we was, that they used to be obligated to have no more to do with us and to give us up to him.
dickens|I really thought he was still speaking of the fowl, until he added, Because I have got an aged parent at my place.
dickens|It could not be done, and the attempt to do it would inevitably engender suspicion.
dickens|Much as I knowd the birds names in the hedges to be chaffinch, sparrer, thrush.
dickens|With this hurried adjuration, he cocked his blunderbuss, and stood on the offensive.
austen|But if he does it any more I shall certainly let him know that I see what he is about.
dickens|Not, however, until Biddy had imparted to me everything she knew, from the little catalogue of prices, to a comic song she had once bought for a halfpenny.
dickens|There, against an angle of a wall, he made a struggle to look about him.
dickens|It makes me wretched that you should encourage a man so generally despised as Drummle.
austen|And those times are whenever he thinks it worth his while; whenever there is any temptation of pleasure.
dickens|There, there, there!
austen|I am very much mistaken if your sex in general would not think such beauty, and such temper, the highest claims a woman could possess.
austen|My mother means well; but she does not know, no one can know, how much I suffer from what she says.
dickens|Well!
dickens|The President asked, was the Accused openly denounced or secretly?
dickens|Ah!
austen|In that county there was enough to be seen to occupy the chief of their three weeks; and to Mrs Gardiner it had a peculiarly strong attraction.
dickens|In Heavens name why should you kneel to me!
dickens|, was painted on the door, and there was a label on the letterbox, Return shortly.
dickens|When was it!
austen|He was very fond of them.
austen|Balls will be absolutely prohibited, unless you stand up with one of your sisters.
austen|Neither would Mr Knightleys downright, decided, commanding sort of manner, though it suits him very well; his figure, and look, and situation in life seem to allow it; but if any young man were to set about copying him, he would not be sufferable.
austen|And I do not think it of light importance that he should have attentive and conciliatory manners towards everybody, especially towards those to whom he owes his preferment.
dickens|Did they come ashore here?
dickens|Follow her up, Joseph!
austen|They walked together.
dickens|All night there were coaches in my broken sleep, going to wrong places instead of to London, and having in the traces, now dogs, now cats, now pigs, now men,never horses.
austen|Neither of them thought but of Mr Knightley and themselves.
austen|and asked Elizabeth whether she could at all understand him?
dickens|Some of his teeth had failed him since I saw him eat on the marshes, and as he turned his food in his mouth, and turned his head sideways to bring his strongest fangs to bear upon it, he looked terribly like a hungry old dog.
dickens|I judged him to be a bachelor from the frayed condition of his linen, and he appeared to have sustained a good many bereavements; for he wore at least four mourning rings, besides a brooch representing a lady and a weeping willow at a tomb with an urn on it.
dickens|His bloated gaoler, who wore spectacles to read with, glanced over them to assure himself that he had taken his place, and went through the list, making a similar short pause at each name.
dickens|He was signalling with her when I saw her, argued Madame Defarge; I cannot speak of one without the other; and I must not be silent, and trust the case wholly to him, this little citizen here.
dickens|So cold, so lonely, so dreary all!
dickens|While Sydney Carton and the Sheep of the prisons were in the adjoining dark room, speaking so low that not a sound was heard, Mr Lorry looked at Jerry in considerable doubt and mistrust.
dickens|After that there gallop from Temple Bar, old lady, I wont trust your forelegs till I get you on the level, said this hoarse messenger, glancing at his mare.
austen|But can you think that Lydia is so lost to everything but love of him as to consent to live with him on any terms other than marriage?
dickens|I am.
austen|Certainly, my dear, nobody said there were; but as to not meeting with many people in this neighbourhood, I believe there are few neighbourhoods larger.
dickens|I didnt see you, but I must have been pretty close behind you.
austen|Elizabeth, equally next to Jane in birth and beauty, succeeded her of course.
dickens|I didnt stop for life, dear boy and Pips comrade, being here.
austen|I wanted the opinion of some one who could really judge.
dickens|I dont want it to do me more good than it does now, said my convict, with a greedy laugh.
austen|Every body in and about Highbury who had ever visited Mr Elton, was disposed to pay him attention on his marriage.
austen|There had been a time also when Emma would have been sorry to see Harriet in a spot so favourable for the Abbey Mill Farm; but now she feared it not.
dickens|Five paces by four and a half, five paces by four and a half, five paces by four and a half.
dickens|How many people will miss you when you leave it empty!
dickens|A murky red and yellow sky, and a rising mist from the Seine, denoted the approach of darkness.
austen|Pray read on.
dickens|They came in again without finding anything, and then we struck out on the open marshes, through the gate at the side of the churchyard.
dickens|Wot can she have been a takin, to keep her courage up?
austen|Much better employed talking to the young ladies.
austen|It is useless to talk of it.
austen|She was decided, and thus spoke  Harriet, I will not affect to be in doubt of your meaning.
dickens|What is it?
dickens|Never mind what I make it, my friend, observed Mr Jaggers, with a knowing and contradictory toss of his head.
austen|Mrs Hurst and her sister scarcely opened their mouths, except to complain of fatigue, and were evidently impatient to have the house to themselves.
dickens|Why do you want to know?
dickens|All the truth of my position came flashing on me; and its disappointments, dangers, disgraces, consequences of all kinds, rushed in in such a multitude that I was borne down by them and had to struggle for every breath I drew.
dickens|The spy would have been no spy if he had failed to see it, or to record it in his mind.
austen|Mrs Weston wants to see you.
dickens|There was a gay fiction among us that we were constantly enjoying ourselves, and a skeleton truth that we never did.
austen|The stupidest fellow!
dickens|You will naturally be anxious to hear of the witness, Miss Manette.
dickens|Youve never deserted me, dear boy.
dickens|When have you found me unmindful of your lessons?
dickens|Much to be regretted.
dickens|I was to leave our village at five in the morning, carrying my little handportmanteau, and I had told Joe that I wished to walk away all alone.
dickens|He lies here, in this corner of the carriage.
austen|Tease himlaugh at him.
austen|But Elizabeth had now recollected herself, and making a strong effort for it, was able to assure with tolerable firmness that the prospect of their relationship was highly grateful to her, and that she wished her all imaginable happiness.
dickens|I made out that I was fastened to a stout perpendicular ladder a few inches from the wall,a fixture there,the means of ascent to the loft above.
austen|I have no pleasure in talking to undutiful children.
austen|cried Mr Knightley.
dickens|I would not have confessed to my visit for any consideration.
austen|Whenever she caught his eye, she forced him to smile; but in general he was looking grave.
dickens|A face habitually suppressed and quieted, was still lighted up under the quaint wig by a pair of moist bright eyes that it must have cost their owner, in years gone by, some pains to drill to the composed and reserved expression of Tellsons Bank.
austen|I wonder which she will think the handsomest, Henry or John?
dickens|I dont!
dickens|I wonder you know me.
dickens|The June weather was delicious.
dickens|He had gradually dropped to the floor, and lay there in a lethargy, worn out.
dickens|I give him up to you!
dickens|As he stood staring at them, they asked him no question, for his face told them everything.
austen|Altogether she was quite convinced of Harriet Smiths being exactly the young friend she wantedexactly the something which her home required.
dickens|We were noticing this, and saying how that the mist rose with a change of wind from a certain quarter of our marshes, when we came upon a man, slouching under the lee of the turnpike house.
dickens|This caused great confusion on board the steamer, and I heard them calling to us, and heard the order given to stop the paddles, and heard them stop, but felt her driving down upon us irresistibly.
dickens|Well deserved, well deserved!
dickens|That is the subject we think of, and it gives us, from morning to night, enough to think about, without embarrassing our heads concerning others.
austen|only think.
dickens|Opening one of the windows after that, he looked out into the moonlight, and told me that the pavement was as solemnly empty as the pavement of any cathedral at that same hour.
dickens|Let the Doctor play the winning game; I will play the losing one.
austen|There was hardly time to talk over the first letter from Enscombe before Mr Elton and his bride was in every bodys mouth, and Frank Churchill was forgotten.
dickens|And so I swear it is Death, said he, putting his pipe back in his mouth, and Death by the rope, in the open street not fur from this, and its serious that you should fully understand it to be so.
austen|Well, said she, and you soon silenced Mr Cole, I suppose?
dickens|I was the only inside passenger, jolting away kneedeep in straw, when I came to myself.
dickens|Mr Wopsle taking the bass, and asserting with a tremendously strong voice in reply to the inquisitive bore who leads that piece of music in a most impertinent manner, by wanting to know all about everybodys private affairs that he was the man with his white locks flowing, and that he was upon the whole the weakest pilgrim going.
dickens|Water was splashing, and mud was flying, and oaths were being sworn, and blows were being struck, when some more men went down into the ditch to help the sergeant, and dragged out, separately, my convict and the other one.
dickens|Hold!
dickens|Of course, I was perfectly sure and safe that Provis had not been there.
austen|But I have other provocations.
dickens|said Mr Lorry, with his open pocketbook in his hand.
dickens|I cried about it from breakfast till dinner.
dickens|That aint the way to get out of being common, old chap.
austen|Do not put it into his head.
austen|You observed it, Mr Darcy, I am sure, said Miss Bingley; and I am inclined to think that you would not wish to see your sister make such an exhibition.
dickens|Look at your linen; fine and beautiful!
dickens|But add the case that you had loved her, Pip, and had made her the subject of those poor dreams which have, at one time or another, been in the heads of more men than you think likely, then I tell you that you had betterand would much sooner when you had thought well of itchop off that bandaged left hand of yours with your bandaged right hand, and then pass the chopper on to Wemmick there, to cut that off too.
austen|The Collinses will turn us out before he is cold in his grave, and if you are not kind to us, brother, I do not know what we shall do.
austen|How can you contrive to write so even?
austen|Indeed, Miss Woodhouse, speaking more collectedly, with the consciousness which I have of misconduct, very great misconduct, it is particularly consoling to me to know that those of my friends, whose good opinion is most worth preserving, are not disgusted to such a degree as toI have not time for half that I could wish to say.
dickens|A tradingboat, with a sail of the softened colour of a dead leaf, then glided into his view, floated by him, and died away.
austen|The superior hopes which gradually opened were so much the more enchanting.
austen|No, he could not believe it a bad house; not such a house as a man was to be pitied for having.
austen|A man who has once been refused!
dickens|Who seeks him?
austen|But you are not entitled to know mine; nor will such behaviour as this, ever induce me to be explicit.
dickens|and quietly sat down again.
austen|As for Elizabeth herself, this invitation was so far from exciting in her the same feelings as in her mother and Lydia, that she considered it as the death warrant of all possibility of common sense for the latter; and detestable as such a step must make her were it known, she could not help secretly advising her father not to let her go.
austen|Happy creature!
austen|What is the matter, sir?
austen|Mr Gardiner had waited only for the letters before he set off.
dickens|They hanged at Tyburn, in those days, so the street outside Newgate had not obtained one infamous notoriety that has since attached to it.
austen|Your description of Mrs Churchill made me think of them directly.
austen|I cannot imagine, said Mrs Elton, feeling the indignity as a wife ought to do, I cannot imagine how he could do such a thing by you, of all people in the world!
austen|I shall have no difficulty, I suppose, in finding the house; though Fairfax, I believe, is not the proper nameI should rather say Barnes, or Bates.
austen|You have heard of a certain Frank Churchill, I presume, he continuedand know him to be my son, though he does not bear my name.
dickens|Ecod, replied Wemmick, shaking his head, thats not my trade.
austen|Another accidental meeting with the Martins was possible, and in her present state, would be dangerous.
dickens|Now, did you ever see him, asked the Doctor, distinctly and collectedly, though in the same low voice, engaged in that pursuit originally?
austen|From that moment, Emma could have taken her oath that Mr Knightley had had no concern in giving the instrument.
austen|I saw the word, and am curious to know how it could be so very entertaining to the one, and so very distressing to the other.
austen|I am not at all afraid.
dickens|At first, they were read as D.
dickens|said Mrs Joe, restoring Tickler to his station.
dickens|So, when we had walked home and had had tea, I took Biddy into our little garden by the side of the lane, and, after throwing out in a general way for the elevation of her spirits, that I should never forget her, said I had a favor to ask of her.
austen|You may ask questions which I shall not choose to answer.
austen|I should not like a man who is so soon discomposed by a hot morning.
dickens|In the Eastern story, the heavy slab that was to fall on the bed of state in the flush of conquest was slowly wrought out of the quarry, the tunnel for the rope to hold it in its place was slowly carried through the leagues of rock, the slab was slowly raised and fitted in the roof, the rope was rove to it and slowly taken through the miles of hollow to the great iron ring.
dickens|In the evening there was rowing on the river.
dickens|There have been occasions in my later life I suppose as in most lives when I have felt for a time as if a thick curtain had fallen on all its interest and romance, to shut me out from anything save dull endurance any more.
dickens|It pinted out this writing, Joseph.
dickens|said Miss Pross.
dickens|The people had all poured out to the show in the streets.
austen|Good morning to you, my dear sir.
austen|It is a most repulsive quality, indeed, said he.
austen|From what we have seen of him, continued Mrs Gardiner, I really should not have thought that he could have behaved in so cruel a way by anybody as he has done by poor Wickham.
dickens|Surely you would, too, if you were in my place?
austen|He went to town on business three days ago, and I got him to take charge of some papers which I was wanting to send to John.
dickens|said Drummle, by way of answering me.
dickens|As I had asked for a nightlight, the chamberlain had brought me in, before he left me, the good old constitutional rushlight of those virtuous daysan object like the ghost of a walkingcane, which instantly broke its back if it were touched, which nothing could ever be lighted at, and which was placed in solitary confinement at the bottom of a high tin tower, perforated with round holes that made a staringly wideawake pattern on the walls.
austen|One could not leave her out.
dickens|I done what I could to keep you and Tickler in sunders, but my power were not always fully equal to my inclinations.
austen|said he hastily, as he opened the door.
dickens|She took no notice of me until she had the candle in her hand, when she looked over her shoulder, superciliously saying, You are to come this way today, and took me to quite another part of the house.
dickens|It is strange to know no more about either, and particularly you, than I was able to tell last night.
austen|Fixed there by the keenest of all anguish, selfreproach, she could find no interval of ease or forgetfulness.
dickens|Once received, it is a haunting idea; how many undesigning persons I suspected of watching me, it would be hard to calculate.
dickens|He was an inquisitive fellow, and sometimes when she had quite forgotten him in gazing at the prison roof and grates, and in lifting her heart up to her husband, she would come to herself to find him looking at her, with his knee on his bench and his saw stopped in its work.
dickens|The tall man called out again with a most unearthly cry, Dead!
dickens|I informed him in exchange that my Christian name was Philip.
austen|Oh!
dickens|Estella smiled with perfect composure, and said she had no doubt of my having been quite right, and of her having been very disagreeable.
austen|I give you this caution now, because I shall never speak to you again on the subject.
dickens|All being made ready with much labor, and the hour come, the sultan was aroused in the dead of the night, and the sharpened axe that was to sever the rope from the great iron ring was put into his hand, and he struck with it, and the rope parted and rushed away, and the ceiling fell.
dickens|And you remember that there was a chase after two convicts, and that we joined in it, and that Gargery took you on his back, and that I took the lead, and you kept up with me as well as you could?
austen|I would keep a pack of foxhounds, and drink a bottle of wine a day.
dickens|Perhaps he obtained it as his last and utmost precaution against evil, yesterday.
austen|Can you think your friend behindhand in these sort of considerations?
dickens|You do, said she.
dickens|Before I go, he said, and pausedI may kiss her?
dickens|You hear?
dickens|As often as I was restless in the night, and that was every quarter of an hour, I reflected what an unkindness, what an injury, what an injustice, Biddy had done me.
austen|This letter has been the cure of all the little nervousness I have been feeling lately.
austen|Choose properly, choose a gentlewoman for my sake; and for your own, let her be an active, useful sort of person, not brought up high, but able to make a small income go a good way.
austen|This she would not hear of; but she was not so unwilling to comply with their brothers proposal; and it was settled that Mr Jones should be sent for early in the morning, if Miss Bennet were not decidedly better.
austen|Almost as soon as I entered the house, I singled you out as the companion of my future life.
austen|He was arminarm with Mr Cole.
dickens|The accident had happened in getting it out of a cart; the cask had tumbled out with a run, the hoops had burst, and it lay on the stones just outside the door of the wineshop, shattered like a walnutshell.
dickens|My thoughts strayed from that question as I looked disconsolately at the fire.
dickens|Surely not.
dickens|He knew very well, that in his love for Lucie, his renunciation of his social place, though by no means new to his own mind, had been hurried and incomplete.
austen|It must have been his sisters doing.
dickens|On the previous night, I had been sent straight to bed in an attic with a sloping roof, which was so low in the corner where the bedstead was, that I calculated the tiles as being within a foot of my eyebrows.
dickens|Now you know all about it, Syd, said Mr Stryver.
dickens|When do you think of going down?
dickens|Shakspeare never was complimented with a finer pair.
dickens|said Defarge.
austen|He had gone three miles round one day in order to bring her some walnuts, because she had said how fond she was of them, and in every thing else he was so very obliging.
dickens|Now, pray say no more about it.
dickens|Since it is my misfortune, Mr Carton, to have made you more unhappy than you were before you knew me  Dont say that, Miss Manette, for you would have reclaimed me, if anything could.
dickens|I thought how Joe and my sister were then sitting in the kitchen, and how I had come up to bed from the kitchen, and how Miss Havisham and Estella never sat in a kitchen, but were far above the level of such common doings.
austen|I had narrowly observed her during the two visits which I had lately made here; and I was convinced of her affection.
austen|I never was more surprizedbut it does not make me unhappy, I assure you.
dickens|The sun was striking in at the great windows of the court, through the glittering drops of rain upon the glass, and it made a broad shaft of light between the twoandthirty and the Judge, linking both together, and perhaps reminding some among the audience how both were passing on, with absolute equality, to the greater Judgment that knoweth all things, and cannot err.
dickens|Come hither, little citizen.
dickens|You will save them all.
austen|Still, however, I must be on my guard.
dickens|It is fair to remark that there was no prohibition against any pupils entertaining himself with a slate or even with the ink when there was any, but that it was not easy to pursue that branch of study in the winter season, on account of the little general shop in which the classes were holdenand which was also Mr Wopsles greataunts sittingroom and bedchamberbeing but faintly illuminated through the agency of one lowspirited dipcandle and no snuffers.
austen|Lizzy, you must not do so.
austen|I do not see what right Mr Darcy had to decide on the propriety of his friends inclination, or why, upon his own judgement alone, he was to determine and direct in what manner his friend was to be happy.
dickens|O yes, sir!
austen|A glass of wine; shall I get you one?
dickens|William, said Mr Pumblechook, mournfully, put the salt on.
dickens|A multitude of people, and yet a solitude!
austen|I almost envy you the pleasure, and yet I believe it would be too much for me, or else I could take it in my way to Newcastle.
dickens|Oh!
austen|Your coming to Longbourn, to see me and my family, said Elizabeth coolly, will be rather a confirmation of it; if, indeed, such a report is in existence.
austen|A single man of large fortune; four or five thousand a year.
austen|Why, to own the truth, cried Miss Bates, who had been trying in vain to be heard the last two minutes, if I must speak on this subject, there is no denying that Mr Frank Churchill might haveI do not mean to say that he did not dream itI am sure I have sometimes the oddest dreams in the worldbut if I am questioned about it, I must acknowledge that there was such an idea last spring; for Mrs Perry herself mentioned it to my mother, and the Coles knew of it as well as ourselvesbut it was quite a secret, known to nobody else, and only thought of about three days.
dickens|No.
dickens|He embraced her, solemnly commended her to Heaven, and humbly thanked Heaven for having bestowed her on him.
austen|I promised them so faithfully!
austen|I am excessively attentive to all those things.
austen|We are speaking of music, madam, said he, when no longer able to avoid a reply.
austen|You are joking, Lizzy.
dickens|Thou wilt be faithful, little Charles?
austen|It will not do to invite five couple.
dickens|Poverty parted us, and she knows nothing of my fatefor I cannot writeand if I could, how should I tell her!
austen|Had she known her sister sought to tear her from such prospects and such realities as these, what would have been her sensations?
dickens|Miss Prosss friendship being of the thoroughly practical kind, she had ravaged Soho and the adjacent provinces, in search of impoverished French, who, tempted by shillings and halfcrowns, would impart culinary mysteries to her.
dickens|But has she not taken me downstairs, Belinda, returned Mr Pocket, and shown me the woman, and the bundle too?
dickens|There, there!
austen|Bingley was quite uncomfortable; his sisters declared that they were miserable.
dickens|His affairs, like the affairs of many other French gentlemen and French families, were entirely in Tellsons hands.
austen|Is her husband, is the son of his late fathers steward, to be his brother?
austen|She wished he could love a ballroom better, and could like Frank Churchill better.
dickens|And stop we presently did, in a gloomy street, at certain offices with an open door, whereon was painted MR.
dickens|Wemmick, having finished his breakfast, here looked at his watch, and began to get his coat on.
austen|He had been most agreeable, most delightful; he had told Harriet that he had seen them go by, and had purposely followed them; other little gallantries and allusions had been dropt, but nothing serious.
dickens|Thats a fair young lady to be pitied by and wept for by!
austen|You ought to know your friend best, replied Mr Knightley; but I should say she was a goodtempered, softhearted girl, not likely to be very, very determined against any young man who told her he loved her.
austen|no; there would be a Mrs Knightley to throw cold water on every thing.
austen|I think it is so.
austen|We are in great hopes that Miss Woodhouse may be prevailed with to try it this evening.
austen|Do try to find it out, Miss Woodhouse.
dickens|We believe that Quintin Matsys was the BLACKSMITH of Antwerp.
austen|my dear Mr Bennet, as she entered the room, we have had a most delightful evening, a most excellent ball.
dickens|Disposing these articles about him in skilful manner, he bestowed a parting defiance on Mrs Cruncher, extinguished the light, and went out.
austen|No, indeed, cried Emma, most happy to begin, not in the least.
dickens|In a very clear and pleasant young voice; a little foreign in its accent, but a very little indeed.
dickens|All my life might have been.
austen|He must know that she was as amiable and unpretending as we have found her.
austen|Now there is nothing grandmama loves better than sweetbread and asparagusso she was rather disappointed, but we agreed we would not speak of it to any body, for fear of its getting round to dear Miss Woodhouse, who would be so very much concerned!
austen|If I have, I shall be the last person to confess it.
dickens|Recommendation is not the word, Mr Pip.
dickens|I cant say.
austen|Elizabeth was ready to speak whenever there was an opening, but she was seated between Charlotte and Miss de Bourghthe former of whom was engaged in listening to Lady Catherine, and the latter said not a word to her all dinnertime.
austen|I cannot see you acting wrong, without a remonstrance.
dickens|I know, Doctor Manettehow can I fail to knowthat, mingled with the affection and duty of a daughter who has become a woman, there is, in her heart, towards you, all the love and reliance of infancy itself.
dickens|Then I would say to her, Biddy, I think you once liked me very well, when my errant heart, even while it strayed away from you, was quieter and better with you than it ever has been since.
austen|She has not the open temper which a man would wish for in a wife.
dickens|You need have good cards, sir, said the spy.
austen|I have no doubt of its being our carriage with Miss Bates and Jane.
dickens|Certain wintry branches of candles on the high chimneypiece faintly lighted the chamber; or it would be more expressive to say, faintly troubled its darkness.
dickens|Honore, cries are raised against him.
dickens|Seven prisoners released, seven gory heads on pikes, the keys of the accursed fortress of the eight strong towers, some discovered letters and other memorials of prisoners of old time, long dead of broken hearts,such, and suchlike, the loudly echoing footsteps of Saint Antoine escort through the Paris streets in midJuly, one thousand seven hundred and eightynine.
austen|But I am afraid, Mr Elton, Harriet will not like to sit.
austen|I always said it must be so, at last.
dickens|It would be easier for the weakest poltroon that lives, to erase himself from existence, than to erase one letter of his name or crimes from the knitted register of Madame Defarge.
austen|He began speaking of Harriet, and speaking of her with more voluntary praise than Emma had ever heard before.
austen|You are all kindness, madam; but I believe we must abide by our original plan.
dickens|Pretty witness, he muttered, looking down into his glass.
dickens|It is Defarge whom you see here, who, at the hazard of his life, darted out before the horses, with the petition in his hand.
austen|She was not the better pleased with his gallantry from the idea it suggested of something more.
dickens|Without further interruption, we reached the front office, where we found the clerk and the man in velveteen with the fur cap.
dickens|Yes, I would.
dickens|And if you were shown a flock of birds, unable to fly, and were set upon them to strip them of their feathers for your own advantage, you would set upon the birds of the finest feathers; would you not?
dickens|And again, for anything I knew, the proffered information might have some important bearing on the flight itself.
austen|I thought I should have fainted.
austen|Mrs Gardiner and the children were to remain in Hertfordshire a few days longer, as the former thought her presence might be serviceable to her nieces.
austen|I owe all that I know of it to another, not to you.
austen|See the consequence of keeping you company!
dickens|Have you?
dickens|Hold me!
dickens|We are alone at the top of a high house in a solitary courtyard, we are not likely to be heard, and I pray for bodily strength to keep you here, while every minute you are here is worth a hundred thousand guineas to my darling, said Miss Pross.
austen|I am not afraid of you, said he, smilingly.
austen|Mrs Weston added, that he could only allow himself time to hurry to Highbury, after breakfast, and take leave of the few friends there whom he could suppose to feel any interest in him; and that he might be expected at Hartfield very soon.
austen|Come, come, cried Emma, feeling this to be an unsafe subject, I must beg you not to talk of the sea.
austen|I assure you, that if Darcy were not such a great tall fellow, in comparison with myself, I should not pay him half so much deference.
austen|The confession completely renewed her first shameand the sight of Harriets tears made her think that she should never be in charity with herself again.
dickens|Be particular.
austen|She had never seen a place for which nature had done more, or where natural beauty had been so little counteracted by an awkward taste.
austen|You may be very sure I shall always take care of them.
dickens|Would you mind toasting this sausage for the Aged P.
dickens|I give Pirrip as my fathers family name, on the authority of his tombstone and my sister,Mrs Joe Gargery, who married the blacksmith.
austen|No, cried Mr Knightley, that need not be the consequence.
dickens|With him, I came on, now riding and now walking, through the rest of yesterday and through last night.
dickens|He knew, as every one employed as he was did, that he was never safe; that flight was impossible; that he was tied fast under the shadow of the axe; and that in spite of his utmost tergiversation and treachery in furtherance of the reigning terror, a word might bring it down upon him.
austen|Mr Collins was punctual to his time, and was received with great politeness by the whole family.
austen|She was now met by Mrs Weston.
austen|Nothing that she could say, however, had any influence.
austen|I am going to open the instrument, Eliza, and you know what follows.
austen|Do not consider me now as an elegant female, intending to plague you, but as a rational creature, speaking the truth from her heart.
dickens|Yes, young man, said he, releasing the handle of the article in question, retiring a step or two from my table, and speaking for the behoof of the landlord and waiter at the door, I will leave that teapot alone.
dickens|Whatever nightfancies and nightnoises crowded on me, they never warded off this DONT GO HOME.
austen|I will tell you exactly what I think.
austen|We had great amusement with those letters one morning.
austen|The business was finished, and Harriet safe.
dickens|With wonderful quickness, and with a strength both of will and action, that appeared quite supernatural, he forced all these changes upon him.
dickens|When he recommended the player not to saw the air thus, the sulky man said, And dont you do it, neither; youre a deal worse than him!
dickens|The fear of losing Joes confidence, and of thenceforth sitting in the chimney corner at night staring drearily at my forever lost companion and friend, tied up my tongue.
dickens|You consider it, undoubtedly, a handsome sum of money.
dickens|There is another spy commissioned for our quarter.
dickens|she asked me, again pointing with her stick; that, where those cobwebs are?
dickens|Willingly, sir, said Monsieur Defarge, and quietly stepped with him to the door.
austen|Enscombe however was gracious, gracious in fact, if not in word.
austen|It is a grievous affair to my poor girls, you must confess.
austen|She came solitarily down the gravel walka Miss Martin just appearing at the door, and parting with her seemingly with ceremonious civility.
austen|Who cried most?
austen|Miss Bingley moved with some alacrity to the pianoforte; and, after a polite request that Elizabeth would lead the way which the other as politely and more earnestly negatived, she seated herself.
dickens|Charles Evremonde, called Darnay!
dickens|The weather was stormy, and the passage long and rough, and I lay on a sofa, almost from shore to shore.
austen|While either of them protected him and his, Hartfield was safe.
dickens|Good night!
dickens|His eyes came slowly back, at last, to the face from which they had wandered; when they rested on it, he started, and resumed, in the manner of a sleeper that moment awake, reverting to a subject of last night.
austen|She began at length to recover, to fidget about in her chair, get up, sit down again, wonder, and bless herself.
dickens|Monsieur Charles, whom I expect; is he arrived from England?
dickens|Herbert got a large bottle of stuff for my arm; and by dint of having this stuff dropped over it all the night through, I was just able to bear its pain on the journey.
dickens|When we had passed the village and the church and the churchyard, and were out on the marshes and began to see the sails of the ships as they sailed on, I began to combine Miss Havisham and Estella with the prospect, in my usual way.
austen|They must both have suffered a great deal under such a system of secresy and concealment.
austen|and Emma received a smile which seemed to say, These are my own concerns.
dickens|So, he pushed open the door with the weak rattle in its throat, stumbled down the two steps, got past the two ancient cashiers, and shouldered himself into the musty back closet where Mr Lorry sat at great books ruled for figures, with perpendicular iron bars to his window as if that were ruled for figures too, and everything under the clouds were a sum.
austen|Mr John Knightley looked as if he did not comprehend the pleasure, but said only, coolly,  I cannot wish to be snowed up a week at Randalls.
dickens|For you were not brought up in that strange house from a mere baby.
dickens|And yet it looked so like it, sir, I pleaded with a downcast heart.
dickens|When I got acquainted with your sister, it were the talk how she was bringing you up by hand.
dickens|I was slow to gain strength, but I did slowly and surely become less weak, and Joe stayed with me, and I fancied I was little Pip again.
austen|I have heard, indeed, that she is uncommonly improved within this year or two.
dickens|True!
dickens|I dont think that wise, mind, but its my trust.
austen|She asked after their mutual friends; they were all well.
dickens|She had reserved this last evening for her father, and they sat alone under the planetree.
dickens|You are fatigued, said madame, raising her glance as she knotted the money.
austen|She would be such a delightful companion for Emma.
austen|I say nothing of which I am ashamed, replied he, with lively impudence.
dickens|The purpose was, that I would go to Biddy, that I would show her how humbled and repentant I came back, that I would tell her how I had lost all I once hoped for, that I would remind her of our old confidences in my first unhappy time.
dickens|If you had waited another moment, Biddy, you would have heard me say that I shall bring my clothes here in a bundle one evening,most likely on the evening before I go away.
dickens|I mark this cross of blood upon you, as a sign that I do it.
austen|I told you in the library, you know, that I should never speak to you again, and you will find me as good as my word.
austen|Tis an etiquette I despise, said he.
austen|Nay, were your friend Lady Catherine to know me, I am persuaded she would find me in every respect ill qualified for the situation.
dickens|The witness was quite sure.
dickens|So, the unfortunate Mike very humbly withdrew, and Mr Jaggers and Wemmick appeared to have reestablished their good understanding, and went to work again with an air of refreshment upon them as if they had just had lunch.
dickens|The remains of my poor sister had been brought round by the kitchen door, and, it being a point of Undertaking ceremony that the six bearers must be stifled and blinded under a horrible black velvet housing with a white border, the whole looked like a blind monster with twelve human legs, shuffling and blundering along, under the guidance of two keepers,the postboy and his comrade.
austen|why did we wait for any thing?
dickens|He bent down so low to frown at his boots, that he was able to rub the calves of his legs in the pause he made.
dickens|The stones of which the strongest London buildings are made are not more real, or more impossible to be displaced by your hands, than your presence and influence have been to me, there and everywhere, and will be.
dickens|theres drops of blood.
austen|Harriet slept at Hartfield that night.
austen|Soon after their return, a letter was delivered to Miss Bennet; it came from Netherfield.
austen|When dinner was over, she returned directly to Jane, and Miss Bingley began abusing her as soon as she was out of the room.
dickens|In a few moments, a man stood in his presence, who, with a keenly observant look at him, addressed him by his name.
dickens|The story of his pure soul was exactly what Mr AttorneyGeneral had described it to beperhaps, if it had a fault, a little too exactly.
austen|Not that I had any doubt beforeI have so often heard Mr Woodhouse recommend a baked apple.
austen|Frank Churchill turned towards her to listen.
austen|It was plain to them all that Colonel Fitzwilliam came because he had pleasure in their society, a persuasion which of course recommended him still more; and Elizabeth was reminded by her own satisfaction in being with him, as well as by his evident admiration of her, of her former favourite George Wickham; and though, in comparing them, she saw there was less captivating softness in Colonel Fitzwilliams manners, she believed he might have the best informed mind.
dickens|How long, demanded madame, composedly, does it take to make and store the lightning?
austen|It would be a crowda sad crowd; and what could be worse than dancing without space to turn in?
austen|Exactly so indeed!
austen|When her mother went up to her dressingroom at night, she followed her, and made the important communication.
dickens|I knows what I thinks, observed the Jack.
dickens|My sister, who had begun to be alarmingly meditative, had to employ herself actively in getting the gin, the hot water, the sugar, and the lemonpeel, and mixing them.
dickens|With that, he called to his men, who came trooping into the kitchen one after another, and piled their arms in a corner.
austen|Are any of your younger sisters out, Miss Bennet?
dickens|Hush, hush!
dickens|Yet this made me none the happier, for even if she had not taken that tone of our being disposed of by others, I should have felt that she held my heart in her hand because she wilfully chose to do it, and not because it would have wrung any tenderness in her to crush it and throw it away.
dickens|In what ecstasy of unhappiness I got these broken words out of myself, I dont know.
dickens|Thats the difference between the property and the owner, dont you see?
dickens|Have you ever heard of any tutor whom you would prefer to another?
dickens|No, no.
austen|It was most provoking.
dickens|asked the Marquis, whom I will still describe as the elder brother, coming booted into the room from his horse.
dickens|Let him come out too, said Solomon.
dickens|Chair there!
dickens|A four and two sitters dont go hanging and hovering, up with one tide and down with another, and both with and against another, without there being Custum Us at the bottom of it.
dickens|A bridecake.
dickens|A man dont see all this here a goin on dreadful round him, in the way of Subjects without heads, dear me, plentiful enough fur to bring the price down to porterage and hardly that, without havin his serious thoughts of things.
austen|The letter which she wrote on this occasion to her sister will prove what she felt.
austen|I can only say that there was smoothness outwardly.
dickens|Your husband, Lucie?
dickens|I want to ask  A moment, my dear boy, and I have done.
dickens|She has such a strong attachment to you and reliance on you.
austen|But she is charmingly recovered.
dickens|Therefore, when Herbert and I sat down with him by his fire, I asked him first of all whether he relied on Wemmicks judgment and sources of information?
dickens|Is he ungrateful to no one else?
austen|I found he was coming up towards me tooslowly you know, and as if he did not quite know what to do; and so he came and spoke, and I answeredand I stood for a minute, feeling dreadfully, you know, one cant tell how; and then I took courage, and said it did not rain, and I must go; and so off I set; and I had not got three yards from the door, when he came after me, only to say, if I was going to Hartfield, he thought I had much better go round by Mr Coles stables, for I should find the near way quite floated by this rain.
dickens|President, I indignantly protest to you that this is a forgery and a fraud.
austen|I am sure she is very goodI hope she will be very happy.
austen|Emma returned all her attention to her father, saying in secret  I am glad I have done being in love with him.
austen|She mentioned this to her friend Miss Lucas.
austen|Jane will be treated with such regard and kindness!
austen|Oh yes!
dickens|Know that a petition was presented to the King and Queen.
dickens|It was put before him, and he drank off a glassfuldrank off another glassfulpushed the bottle thoughtfully away.
austen|Her tears fell abundantlybut her grief was so truly artless, that no dignity could have made it more respectable in Emmas eyesand she listened to her and tried to console her with all her heart and understandingreally for the time convinced that Harriet was the superior creature of the twoand that to resemble her would be more for her own welfare and happiness than all that genius or intelligence could do.
dickens|At, repeated Mr Jaggers, still looking at the ceiling, therateof?
austen|One of the Otways.
dickens|My sister, having so much to do, was going to church vicariously, that is to say, Joe and I were going.
dickens|Ill not leave a handful of that dark hair upon your head, if you lay a finger on me!
austen|On applying to see the place, they were admitted into the hall; and Elizabeth, as they waited for the housekeeper, had leisure to wonder at her being where she was.
austen|I want to see you permanently well connected, and to that end it will be advisable to have as few odd acquaintance as may be; and, therefore, I say that if you should still be in this country when Mr Martin marries, I wish you may not be drawn in by your intimacy with the sisters, to be acquainted with the wife, who will probably be some mere farmers daughter, without education.
dickens|Having smoked his pipe out, and ruminated a little longer, he turned himself about, that he might appear, before the hour of closing, on his station at Tellsons.
austen|This was astonishing!
dickens|Is it not a pity that he should keep it by him?
dickens|There is a Celebration in the streets, and no one will be accessible until dark.
austen|Your command?
dickens|Soon afterwards, Biddy, Joe, and I, had a cold dinner together; but we dined in the best parlor, not in the old kitchen, and Joe was so exceedingly particular what he did with his knife and fork and the saltcellar and what not, that there was great restraint upon us.
dickens|I arrived on the ground with a quarter of an hour to spare, attended by the Avenger,if I may connect that expression with one who never attended on me if he could possibly help it.
austen|It was agreed upon, as what was to be; and every body by whom he was used to be guided assuring him that it would be for his happiness; and having some feelings himself which almost admitted it, he began to think that some time or otherin another year or two, perhapsit might not be so very bad if the marriage did take place.
austen|As for my fair cousins, though my absence may not be long enough to render it necessary, I shall now take the liberty of wishing them health and happiness, not excepting my cousin Elizabeth.
dickens|Through such an atmosphere, by a steep dark shaft of dirt and poison, the way lay.
dickens|Who is the lady?
dickens|As I was silent for a while, looking at Estella and considering how to go on, Miss Havisham repeated, It is not your secret, but anothers.
austen|There was a strong expectation of his coming soon after the marriage, but it ended in nothing; and I have not heard him mentioned lately.
dickens|Upon which my sister fixed me with her eye, and said, in a low reproachful voice, Do you hear that?
dickens|I will remember it as long as I live.
dickens|When we had fortified ourselves with the rum and milk and biscuits, and were going out for the walk with that training preparation on us, I was considerably surprised to see Wemmick take up a fishingrod, and put it over his shoulder.
austen|To take a dislike to a young man, only because he appeared to be of a different disposition from himself, was unworthy the real liberality of mind which she was always used to acknowledge in him; for with all the high opinion of himself, which she had often laid to his charge, she had never before for a moment supposed it could make him unjust to the merit of another.
dickens|More than that, he added, as he tenderly kissed her my future is far brighter, Lucie, seen through your marriage, than it could have beennay, than it ever waswithout it.
dickens|But Biddy said she was, and she said it decisively.
austen|Oh!
dickens|But there werent any horses to it.
austen|But it is very remarkable that she should always hear Jane better than she does me.
austen|Pleasant walks?
austen|There was always sufficient reason for such an attention; Mrs and Miss Bates loved to be called on, and she knew she was considered by the very few who presumed ever to see imperfection in her, as rather negligent in that respect, and as not contributing what she ought to the stock of their scanty comforts.
dickens|cried Mr Jaggers.
austen|I am sure there was some great neglect or other on their side, for she is not the kind of girl to do such a thing if she had been well looked after.
dickens|I intend to take Jerry.
dickens|These scraps of paper fail me.
austen|Every part of it brought pain and humiliation, of some sort or other; but, compared with the evil to Harriet, all was light; and she would gladly have submitted to feel yet more mistakenmore in errormore disgraced by misjudgment, than she actually was, could the effects of her blunders have been confined to herself.
austen|I did not make the allowances, said she, which I ought to have done, for his temper and spiritshis delightful spirits, and that gaiety, that playfulness of disposition, which, under any other circumstances, would, I am sure, have been as constantly bewitching to me, as they were at first.
dickens|There was not much time to consider the subject, for we were soon in Miss Havishams room, where she and everything else were just as I had left them.
austen|I have no business to put myself forward.
dickens|imperiously stopping me as I opened my lips.
austen|She thought so well of the letter, that when Mr Knightley came again, she desired him to read it.
austen|The lane made a slight bend; and when that bend was passed, Mr Elton was immediately in sight; and so near as to give Emma time only to say farther,  Ah!
dickens|What could have put it in my head but the glistening of a tear as it dropped on her work?
dickens|The prisoner was like a young child in his hands.
austen|Escape, however, was not his plan.
austen|How that visit was to be acknowledgedwhat would be necessaryand what might be safest, had been a point of some doubtful consideration.
austen|I absolutely must go in by myself, though I hate being stuck up in the barouchelandau without a companion; but Augusta, I believe, with her own goodwill, would never stir beyond the park paling.
austen|Mrs Gilbert does not mean to dance, but there is a young lady disengaged whom I should be very glad to see dancingMiss Smith.
austen|And as for wedding clothes, do not let them wait for that, but tell Lydia she shall have as much money as she chooses to buy them, after they are married.
dickens|Thus Trabbs boy became their guide, and with him they went out to the sluicehouse, though by the town way to the marshes, which I had avoided.
austen|He gave her to understand that Frank admired her extremelythought her very beautiful and very charming; and with so much to be said for him altogether, she found she must not judge him harshly.
dickens|The only response is, that I have acted for an emigrant, and where is that emigrant?
dickens|We went in at the door, which stood open, and into a gloomy room with a low ceiling, on the groundfloor at the back.
dickens|I like that Spider though.
dickens|Or speak to meat some other time.
dickens|Stop a moment, I am coming to that.
austen|In short, my dear madam, it was a quarrel blameless on her side, abominable on mine; and I returned the same evening to Richmond, though I might have staid with you till the next morning, merely because I would be as angry with her as possible.
dickens|Theres as many as six, you see, to choose from.
austen|Since the shire were first quartered in Meryton, nothing but love, flirtation, and officers have been in her head.
dickens|cried Flopson.
dickens|Soon afterwards the day began to dawn, and he softly detached himself from the clasping hand, and cautiously looked out again.
austen|Emma had not had time even to think of Mr Elton, and she was so completely surprized that she could not avoid a little start, and a little blush, at the sound.
austen|Mrs Weston, kindhearted and musical, was particularly interested by the circumstance, and Emma could not help being amused at her perseverance in dwelling on the subject; and having so much to ask and to say as to tone, touch, and pedal, totally unsuspicious of that wish of saying as little about it as possible, which she plainly read in the fair heroines countenance.
dickens|Yes, Joe.
dickens|To distinguish the brothers, I will call them the elder and the younger; by the elder, I mean him who exercised the most authority.
dickens|It was so much, however, to her who received it, that she turned from Defarge to his wife, and kissed one of the hands that knitted.
dickens|His head was all on one side, and one of his eyes was half shut up, as if he were taking aim at something with an invisible gun.
austen|Poor man!
austen|It is admirable!
austen|And it is the more to be lamented, because there is reason to suppose as my dear Charlotte informs me, that this licentiousness of behaviour in your daughter has proceeded from a faulty degree of indulgence; though, at the same time, for the consolation of yourself and Mrs Bennet, I am inclined to think that her own disposition must be naturally bad, or she could not be guilty of such an enormity, at so early an age.
austen|Her curiosity was greatly excited.
austen|You do not know what he really is; then pray do not pain me by speaking of him in such terms.
dickens|Be as considerate and good to me as you were, and tell me we are friends.
austen|Thank you.
austen|I never had the slightest suspicion, till within the last hour, of Mr Frank Churchills having the least regard for Jane Fairfax.
austen|not handsomenot at all handsome.
austen|I hope he will be here tomorrow, for I have a question or two to ask him about myself of some consequence.
austen|She was pleased with the eagerness to arrive which had made him alter his plan, and travel earlier, later, and quicker, that he might gain half a day.
dickens|Is there any Miss Havisham down town?
austen|He might have doubled his presumption to mebut poor Harriet!
austen|My real purpose was to see you, and to judge, if I could, whether I might ever hope to make you love me.
austen|Mrs Long told me last night that he sat close to her for halfanhour without once opening his lips.
dickens|A curious contagion of whispering was upon it, and also, when it gathered together at the fountain in the dark, another curious contagion of looking expectantly at the sky in one direction only.
austen|Mr Weston, you must really have had Aladdins lamp.
austen|Harriet was remembered only from being her friend.
dickens|she cried, picking up the pockethandkerchief, if that dont make seven times!
dickens|And I love her!
dickens|I noticed that after the funeral Joe changed his clothes so far, as to make a compromise between his Sunday dress and working dress; in which the dear fellow looked natural, and like the Man he was.
austen|Elizabeth was at no loss to understand from whence this deference to her authority proceeded; but it was not in her power to give any information of so satisfactory a nature as the compliment deserved.
dickens|I dont ask you what you owe, because you dont know; and if you did know, you wouldnt tell me; you would say less.
dickens|But, Miss Pross suddenly became afflicted with a twitching in the head and body, and retired into the house.
austen|Well, my dear Jane, I believe we must be running away.
dickens|Oars!
dickens|This practical authority confused me very much by saying I had the arm of a blacksmith.
dickens|But he has beenbeen found.
austen|It was an odd teteatete; but she was glad to see it.
dickens|And Loramussy me!
austen|And then, to prevent farther outrage and indignation, changed the subject directly.
austen|He can be a conversible companion if he thinks it worth his while.
dickens|All such circumstances were indifferent to him, so that he did his duty.
dickens|You mustnt go a overdoing on it, but you must have your supper and your wine and water, and you must be put betwixt the sheets.
dickens|His high personal popularity, and the clearness of his answers, made a great impression; but, as he proceeded, as he showed that the Accused was his first friend on his release from his long imprisonment; that, the accused had remained in England, always faithful and devoted to his daughter and himself in their exile; that, so far from being in favour with the Aristocrat government there, he had actually been tried for his life by it, as the foe of England and friend of the United Statesas he brought these circumstances into view, with the greatest discretion and with the straightforward force of truth and earnestness, the Jury and the populace became one.
austen|I must have given you up.
dickens|The time when one would be due where we lay, wherever that might be, could be calculated pretty nearly, if we made inquiries beforehand.
austen|Can you seriously ask me, Harriet, whether I imagined him attached to another woman at the very time that I wastacitly, if not openlyencouraging you to give way to your own feelings?
austen|Mr Elton was to take the drawing to London, chuse the frame, and give the directions; and Emma thought she could so pack it as to ensure its safety without much incommoding him, while he seemed mostly fearful of not being incommoded enough.
austen|I hope I know better now, than to care for Mr Martin, or to be suspected of it.
dickens|You hadnt taken to the dreadful business then, Jerry.
dickens|The barrier was closed and strongly guarded when they rode up to it.
dickens|Kiss him for me!
dickens|Told me!
austen|At that moment they were met from another walk by Mrs Hurst and Elizabeth herself.
dickens|You little thought you was to be refreshment beneath this humble roof for one asCall it a weakness, if you will, said Mr Pumblechook, getting up again, but may I?
dickens|When you first caused me to be brought here, Miss Havisham, when I belonged to the village over yonder, that I wish I had never left, I suppose I did really come here, as any other chance boy might have come,as a kind of servant, to gratify a want or a whim, and to be paid for it?
dickens|Once more, the mists were rising as I walked away.
austen|In one respect, my good fortune is undoubted, that of being able to subscribe myself,                      Your obliged and affectionate Son,                                            F.
austen|The period of expectation was now doubled.
austen|It is too long ago.
dickens|And when he and I were left alone together, he sat with an air upon him of general lying by in consequence of information he possessed, that really was too much for me.
dickens|Was there no one else?
austen|And even Mary could assure her family that she had no disinclination for it.
austen|The moral will be perfectly fair.
austen|She might have prevented the indulgence and increase of such sentiments.
austen|She talked to Elizabeth again and again; coaxed and threatened her by turns.
dickens|But then, blessed with the relief of tears, I fell upon my knees, and blessed her.
dickens|Casting my eyes along the street at a certain point of my progress, I beheld Trabbs boy approaching, lashing himself with an empty blue bag.
austen|Mrs Reynolds could interest her on no other point.
dickens|See now, see now!
austen|Good Heaven!
dickens|All through the cold and restless interval, until dawn, they once more whispered in the ears of Mr Jarvis Lorrysitting opposite the buried man who had been dug out, and wondering what subtle powers were for ever lost to him, and what were capable of restorationthe old inquiry  I hope you care to be recalled to life?
austen|In the daily interchange of news, they must be again restricted to the other topics with which for a while the Sucklings coming had been united, such as the last accounts of Mrs Churchill, whose health seemed every day to supply a different report, and the situation of Mrs Weston, whose happiness it was to be hoped might eventually be as much increased by the arrival of a child, as that of all her neighbours was by the approach of it.
dickens|Defarge motioned with the paper to the prisoner that he must accompany him.
dickens|The stone faces on the outer walls stared blindly at the black night for three heavy hours; for three heavy hours, the horses in the stables rattled at their racks, the dogs barked, and the owl made a noise with very little resemblance in it to the noise conventionally assigned to the owl by menpoets.
austen|The real evils, indeed, of Emmas situation were the power of having rather too much her own way, and a disposition to think a little too well of herself; these were the disadvantages which threatened alloy to her many enjoyments.
austen|They met several times, for there was much to be discussed.
dickens|Yes.
austen|And I am changed also; for I am now very willing to grant you all Harriets good qualities.
austen|You will excuse me.
dickens|But its not my business, said he.
austen|Perhaps he had been civil only because he felt himself at ease; yet there had been that in his voice which was not like ease.
dickens|Changed!
dickens|I only know that I found myself, with a perseverance worthy of a much better cause, making the most strenuous exertions to compress it within those limits.
austen|How often is happiness destroyed by preparation, foolish preparation!
dickens|When at last I put the glass to him, I saw with amazement that his eyes were full of tears.
dickens|Sarah Pocket came to the gate, and positively reeled back when she saw me so changed; her walnutshell countenance likewise turned from brown to green and yellow.
dickens|He had taken up the poker again; without which, I doubt if he could have proceeded in his demonstration.
austen|Elizabeth made no answer, and walked on, her heart swelling with indignation.
austen|Always the first person to be thought of!
dickens|What!
dickens|That Providence, however, had put it into the heart of a person who was beyond fear and beyond reproach, to ferret out the nature of the prisoners schemes, and, struck with horror, to disclose them to his Majestys Chief Secretary of State and most honourable Privy Council.
dickens|Unless you call Miss Havisham a he.
austen|She was deeply ashamed, and a little afraid of his next look.
austen|There is no saying, indeed, replied Harriet rather solemnly.
austen|One cannot call her fair.
dickens|I had heard of Miss Havisham up town,everybody for miles round had heard of Miss Havisham up town,as an immensely rich and grim lady who lived in a large and dismal house barricaded against robbers, and who led a life of seclusion.
austen|They ran through the vestibule into the breakfastroom; from thence to the library; their father was in neither; and they were on the point of seeking him up stairs with their mother, when they were met by the butler, who said  If you are looking for my master, maam, he is walking towards the little copse.
dickens|Madame Defarge cast down her eyes, and reflected a little.
dickens|It has been a memorable time for me, Joe.
dickens|His chair was opposite to the window, and he had taken his soup, and was raising his glass of Bordeaux to his lips, when he put it down.
austen|Is not that your idea?
austen|But wishes were vain, or at least could only serve to amuse her in the hurry and confusion of the following hour.
austen|You cannot be ignorant, Mrs Elton, of my connexion with the family, nor of the treatment I have met with; and, between ourselves, the whole blame of it is to be laid to her.
austen|He only meant that there was not such a variety of people to be met with in the country as in the town, which you must acknowledge to be true.
dickens|The end of the first book.
dickens|!
dickens|Whom did she murder?
dickens|Got out at last, with earth hanging about his face and hair, he would suddenly fan away to dust.
dickens|Father and son, extremely like each other, looking silently on at the morning traffic in Fleetstreet, with their two heads as near to one another as the two eyes of each were, bore a considerable resemblance to a pair of monkeys.
dickens|Making my way along here with all despatch, I had just crossed a ditch which I knew to be very near the Battery, and had just scrambled up the mound beyond the ditch, when I saw the man sitting before me.
austen|added Elizabeth; safe from a connection imprudent as to fortune.
dickens|As the patient eyes were lifted to his face, he saw a sudden doubt in them, and then astonishment.
dickens|This statement sounds so well, that I cannot in my conscience let it pass unexplained.
dickens|Herbert said, Certainly, but looked as if there were no specific consolation in this, and remained perplexed and dismayed.
dickens|The little boy had spoken of him, almost at the last.
dickens|Gentlemen, said I, pardon me; but I usually inquire who does me the honour to seek my assistance, and what is the nature of the case to which I am summoned.
austen|No intercourse with Harriet possible but by note; no church for her on Sunday any more than on Christmas Day; and no need to find excuses for Mr Eltons absenting himself.
austen|We were always good friends; and now we are better.
dickens|See you then, Jacques, said Madame Defarge, wrathfully; and see you, too, my little Vengeance; see you both!
austen|Exceed their income!
austen|In the summer it might have passed; but what can any bodys native air do for them in the months of January, February, and March?
dickens|Yours!
austen|How despicably I have acted!
austen|I always make a point of reading Janes letters through to myself first, before I read them aloud to my mother, you know, for fear of there being any thing in them to distress her.
dickens|At first, he slept heavily, but, by degrees, began to roll and surge in bed, until he rose above the surface, with his spiky hair looking as if it must tear the sheets to ribbons.
dickens|I then said what politeness required.
austen|on this subject; and it was but the very Saturday night before I left Hunsfordbetween our pools at quadrille, while Mrs Jenkinson was arranging Miss de Bourghs footstool, that she said, Mr Collins, you must marry.
dickens|But she ought to know her own business best.
dickens|We shook hands for the hundredth time at least, and he ordered a young carter out of my way with the greatest indignation.
austen|I perfectly agree with you, sir,was then his remark.
austen|Emmas eyes were instantly withdrawn; and she sat silently meditating, in a fixed attitude, for a few minutes.
austen|Though her brother and sister were persuaded that there was no real occasion for such a seclusion from the family, they did not attempt to oppose it, for they knew that she had not prudence enough to hold her tongue before the servants, while they waited at table, and judged it better that one only of the household, and the one whom they could most trust should comprehend all her fears and solicitude on the subject.
austen|Dating from three oclock yesterday.
austen|There is nobody in Highbury who deserves himand he has been here a whole year, and has fitted up his house so comfortably, that it would be a shame to have him single any longerand I thought when he was joining their hands today, he looked so very much as if he would like to have the same kind office done for him!
austen|She was perfectly sensible that he never had; but she wished to see whether he would betray any consciousness of what had passed between the Bingleys and Jane, and she thought he looked a little confused as he answered that he had never been so fortunate as to meet Miss Bennet.
austen|In the next room is a new instrument just come down for hera present from my master; she comes here tomorrow with him.
austen|A superior performer!
dickens|At the hour and minute, said Herbert, nodding, at which she afterwards stopped all the clocks.
austen|His circumstances, he assured me, and I had no difficulty in believing it, were exceedingly bad.
dickens|Long ago, when he had been famous among his earliest competitors as a youth of great promise, he had followed his father to the grave.
dickens|Or, said Estella,which is a nearer case,if you had taught her, from the dawn of her intelligence, with your utmost energy and might, that there was such a thing as daylight, but that it was made to be her enemy and destroyer, and she must always turn against it, for it had blighted you and would else blight her;if you had done this, and then, for a purpose, had wanted her to take naturally to the daylight and she could not do it, you would have been disappointed and angry?
austen|Mrs Bennet had no turn for economy, and her husbands love of independence had alone prevented their exceeding their income.
dickens|The opportunity that the days rest had given me for reflection had resulted in my fully determining to say nothing to him respecting Compeyson.
austen|How I long to see her!
dickens|Yes!
dickens|my friend would reply, with admiration.
austen|But with all the hopes of cheerfulness, and all the present comfort of delay, there was still such an evil hanging over her in the hour of explanation with Harriet, as made it impossible for Emma to be ever perfectly at ease.
austen|She then proceeded to say a good deal more than she felt, of the advantage of such an addition to their confined society in Surry; the pleasure of looking at somebody new; the galaday to Highbury entire, which the sight of him would have made; and ending with reflections on the Churchills again, found herself directly involved in a disagreement with Mr Knightley; and, to her great amusement, perceived that she was taking the other side of the question from her real opinion, and making use of Mrs Westons arguments against herself.
austen|he can see ready wit in Harriet, but will not dine alone for her.
dickens|Now!
austen|That will not do for a compliment to Darcy, Caroline, cried her brother, because he does not write with ease.
dickens|The night comes on dark.
dickens|On hearing footsteps close at hand, these three turned, and rose, and showed themselves to be the three of one name who had been drinking in the wineshop.
austen|Miss Bennets lovely face confirmed his views, and established all his strictest notions of what was due to seniority; and for the first evening she was his settled choice.
austen|The Churchills might not have a word to say in return; but then, you would have no habits of early obedience and long observance to break through.
austen|It cannot be for meit cannot be for my sake that his manners are thus softened.
austen|In point of composition, said Mary, the letter does not seem defective.
dickens|He had a paperbag under each arm and a pottle of strawberries in one hand, and was out of breath.
dickens|All here is so unprecedented, so changed, so sudden and unfair, that I am absolutely lost.
dickens|Jaggers was for me.
austen|I wish you had been there.
dickens|The hue and cry going off to the Hulks, and people coming thence to examine the iron, Joes opinion was corroborated.
austen|It would be dreadful to be standing so close!
austen|I do not recollect that we did.
dickens|Your own act, Estella, to fling yourself away upon a brute?
austen|Do you draw?
dickens|Besides, its absurd.
dickens|Can such things last?
austen|Of a fine, stout, healthy love it may.
austen|said Mrs Weston in a trembling voice.
austen|I remember her telling me at the ball, that I owed Mrs Elton gratitude for her attentions to Miss Fairfax.
dickens|If you could say, with truth, to your own solitary heart, tonight, I have secured to myself the love and attachment, the gratitude or respect, of no human creature; I have won myself a tender place in no regard; I have done nothing good or serviceable to be remembered by!
dickens|Now, you get along to bed!
austen|He might be superseded by another; he certainly would indeed; nothing could be clearer; even a Robert Martin would have been sufficient; but nothing else, she feared, would cure her.
dickens|Conspicuous among these latter, like an animated bit of the spiked wall of Newgate, Jerry stood aiming at the prisoner the beery breath of a whet he had taken as he came along, and discharging it to mingle with the waves of other beer, and gin, and tea, and coffee, and what not, that flowed at him, and already broke upon the great windows behind him in an impure mist and rain.
austen|Oh!
dickens|When it broke out again, the soldiers made for it at a greater rate than ever, and we after them.
austen|Kitty, a fair but frozen maid,       Kindled a flame I yet deplore,     The hoodwinkd boy I called to aid,     Though of his near approach afraid,       So fatal to my suit before.
austen|And no apology left, no message for me.
dickens|In the midst of them is a tall man with his arms boundtied to his sideslike this!
dickens|How I admire the gallantry of your youthful spirit, Mr Lorry.
austen|wellto be sure.
austen|I quite rave about Jane Fairfax.
dickens|The whole of the Danish nobility were in attendance; consisting of a noble boy in the washleather boots of a gigantic ancestor, a venerable Peer with a dirty face who seemed to have risen from the people late in life, and the Danish chivalry with a comb in its hair and a pair of white silk legs, and presenting on the whole a feminine appearance.
dickens|Cousin Raymond, observed another lady, we are to love our neighbor.
austen|Emma is not strong.
austen|She was in no humour for conversation with anyone but himself; and to him she had hardly courage to speak.
dickens|And Biddy said, I ought to have thought of it, dear Joe, but I was too happy.
austen|Perhaps it is paid already.
dickens|Now, I trust, said Sydney to him, that the name and influence of Doctor Manette may stand him in as good stead tomorrowyou said he would be before the Tribunal again tomorrow, Mr Barsad?
austen|That she should receive an offer of marriage from Mr Darcy!
dickens|Good night.
austen|She pondered, but could think of nothing.
dickens|But it is the same with any life.
dickens|After glancing at him once or twice, in an increased state of smouldering ferocity, I said,  Mr Drummle, I did not seek this conversation, and I dont think it an agreeable one.
dickens|Today is  There, there, there!
dickens|Once more!
dickens|Dont be too eager.
austen|She may not have surmised the whole, but her quickness must have penetrated a part.
dickens|But, she uttered no sound; and so strong was the voice within her, representing that it was she of all the world who must uphold him in his misery and not augment it, that it quickly raised her, even from that shock.
dickens|I says to myself, If I aint a gentleman, nor yet aint got no learning, Im the owner of such.
dickens|I thought you knowed everything, father, said the artless boy.
dickens|Its the cause of much suffering, but its a consolation to know I posses it, when I wake up in the night.
dickens|His hand was again upon the window.
austen|There he had talked to her friends, when he could not to herself.
austen|Mr Weston was a man of unexceptionable character, easy fortune, suitable age, and pleasant manners; and there was some satisfaction in considering with what selfdenying, generous friendship she had always wished and promoted the match; but it was a black mornings work for her.
austen|While they are with us, we shall explore a great deal, I dare say.
dickens|There was a stool, and table, and a straw bed.
austen|All that is known after this is, that they were seen to continue the London road.
dickens|He may be too proud to let any one take him out of a place that he is competent to fill, and fills well and with respect.
austen|My mother is delightfully well; and Jane caught no cold last night.
austen|His countenance, voice, and manner had established him at once in the possession of every virtue.
austen|Emma sat with her as long as she could, to attend her in Mrs Goddards unavoidable absences, and raise her spirits by representing how much Mr Eltons would be depressed when he knew her state; and left her at last tolerably comfortable, in the sweet dependence of his having a most comfortless visit, and of their all missing her very much.
austen|You may well be surprised, Miss Bennet, at such an assertion, after seeing, as you probably might, the very cold manner of our meeting yesterday.
dickens|Charles Darnay!
austen|He sat with them above an hour, and was in remarkably good spirits.
dickens|And could I look upon her without compassion, seeing her punishment in the ruin she was, in her profound unfitness for this earth on which she was placed, in the vanity of sorrow which had become a master mania, like the vanity of penitence, the vanity of remorse, the vanity of unworthiness, and other monstrous vanities that have been curses in this world?
austen|She explained what its effect on her had been, and how gradually all her former prejudices had been removed.
austen|Jane Fairfax mistress of the Abbey!
dickens|But Mr Pumblechook said, sharply, Give him wine, Mum.
dickens|Old Orlick felt that the situation admitted of nothing less than coming on, and was on his defence straightway; so, without so much as pulling off their singed and burnt aprons, they went at one another, like two giants.
dickens|he asked, in reply.
dickens|People who could lay hold of nothing else, set themselves with bleeding hands to force stones and bricks out of their places in walls.
austen|Without a governess, you must have been neglected.
dickens|If he should turn to and beat her, he may possibly get the strength on his side; if it should be a question of intellect, he certainly will not.
dickens|I too sat down before the fire and gazed at the coals, and nothing was said for a long time.
dickens|Mrs Joe made occasional trips with Uncle Pumblechook on marketdays, to assist him in buying such household stuffs and goods as required a womans judgment; Uncle Pumblechook being a bachelor and reposing no confidences in his domestic servant.
austen|You are determined, I see, to have no curiosity.
dickens|Now, let me see, said Madame Defarge, pondering again.
dickens|If I had begun with any appetite, he would have taken it away, and I should have sat much as I did,repelled from him by an insurmountable aversion, and gloomily looking at the cloth.
dickens|said I.
austen|On the contrary, she was as much disposed to complain of it as her husband.
austen|From the entrancehall, of which Mr Collins pointed out, with a rapturous air, the fine proportion and the finished ornaments, they followed the servants through an antechamber, to the room where Lady Catherine, her daughter, and Mrs Jenkinson were sitting.
dickens|Is sought by any other suitor?
austen|I have always admired her complexion, replied Emma, archly; but do not I remember the time when you found fault with her for being so pale?
dickens|Long live the Devil.
dickens|I shall also do a little in the mining way.
austen|Cannot you imagine, Mr Knightley, what a sensation his coming will produce?
austen|When tea was over, Mr Hurst reminded his sisterinlaw of the cardtablebut in vain.
austen|They are wanted in the farm much oftener than I can get them.
dickens|Some of the people of the chateau, and some of those of the postinghouse, and all the taxing authorities, were armed more or less, and were crowded on the other side of the little street in a purposeless way, that was highly fraught with nothing.
austen|I sick of prosperity and indulgence!
dickens|He found the Doctor reading in his armchair at a window.
dickens|In this state they traversed without change, except of horses and pace, all the miredeep leagues that lay between them and the capital.
austen|Absence had increased her desire of seeing Charlotte again, and weakened her disgust of Mr Collins.
dickens|As punctual as ever, he repeated, coming up to us.
austen|If there is no other objection to my marrying your nephew, I shall certainly not be kept from it by knowing that his mother and aunt wished him to marry Miss de Bourgh.
austen|Can it be possible that he will marry her?
dickens|In both, there were several knots of loungers, squalid and miserable, but now with a manifest sense of power enthroned on their distress.
austen|His sisters were anxious for his having an estate of his own; but, though he was now only established as a tenant, Miss Bingley was by no means unwilling to preside at his tablenor was Mrs Hurst, who had married a man of more fashion than fortune, less disposed to consider his house as her home when it suited her.
dickens|Six tumbrils carry the days wine to La Guillotine.
austen|I am sure you did not much expect to like us.
dickens|Let me finish my pipe, and I shall sleep like a child.
dickens|I felt that I had come to the brink of my grave.
austen|So very odd we should happen to meet!
dickens|And then, When she first came, I meant to save her from misery like mine.
austen|Emma could now imagine why her own attentions had been slighted.
dickens|I am very desirous to serve a friend.
dickens|But, now that I remember, one of you has already been there, and can show the way.
austen|He then went away, and Miss Bingley was left to all the satisfaction of having forced him to say what gave no one any pain but herself.
austen|Good Heaven!
dickens|But, they tore up their handkerchiefs to make fresh bandages, and carefully replaced it in the sling, until we could get to the town and obtain some cooling lotion to put upon it.
dickens|That was a memorable day to me, for it made great changes in me.
austen|But, with common sense, she added, I am afraid I have had little to do.
austen|The introduction must be unpleasant, whenever it takes place; and the sooner it could be over, the better.
austen|And when I brought out the baked apples from the closet, and hoped our friends would be so very obliging as to take some, Oh!
dickens|And it were my intentions to have had put upon his tombstone that, Whatsumeer the failings on his part, Remember reader he were that good in his heart.
austen|I have often talked to her a good deal.
austen|Jane was by no means better.
dickens|Tellsons Bank had a run upon it in the mail.
dickens|Rum to think of now!
dickens|She has a fine head for it, croaked Jacques Three.
dickens|The strange thrill with which she heard him go back to that time, deepened as he dwelt upon it; but, there was nothing to shock her in the manner of his reference.
austen|He acknowledged the truth of it all, and said that business with his steward had occasioned his coming forward a few hours before the rest of the party with whom he had been travelling.
austen|Ten thousand pounds!
austen|Emmas answer was ready at the first word.
austen|I know little of the game at present, said he, but I shall be glad to improve myself, for in my situation in life Mrs Phillips was very glad for his compliance, but could not wait for his reason.
austen|And do you really know all this?
austen|there is nothing like staying at home for real comfort.
dickens|I had asked him the question inhospitably enough, for I resented the sort of bright and gratified recognition that still shone in his face.
dickens|the postinghouse.
dickens|returned Estella.
dickens|The three customers pulled off their hats to Madame Defarge, with three flourishes.
austen|Full of thanks, and full of news, Miss Bates knew not which to give quickest.
dickens|I am not sure that I shouldnt like to see her again, but I should like to go home now.
austen|But I have an aunt, too, who must not be longer neglected.
austen|He had, in fact, been wholly unsuspicious of his own influence.
austen|Very pleasant party.
dickens|You make light of the obligation, returned Darnay, but I will not quarrel with your light answer.
dickens|Do you stay here long?
dickens|So close was her hold upon his arm, that he feared to detach himself lest he should hurt her; therefore he called out loudly for assistance without moving.
austen|Marys powers were by no means fitted for such a display; her voice was weak, and her manner affected.
austen|Very odd!
austen|All that remained to be wished was, that the nephew should form the attachment, as, with all her goodwill in the cause, Emma could feel no certainty of its being already formed.
dickens|In the evening we went out for a walk in the streets, and went halfprice to the Theatre; and next day we went to church at Westminster Abbey, and in the afternoon we walked in the Parks; and I wondered who shod all the horses there, and wished Joe did.
austen|She would notice her; she would improve her; she would detach her from her bad acquaintance, and introduce her into good society; she would form her opinions and her manners.
austen|Whatever strange things I said or did during that fortnight, you have now a key to.
dickens|I believe that if you were not in disgrace with the Court, and had not been overshadowed by that cloud for years past, a letter de cachet would have sent me to some fortress indefinitely.
dickens|rejoined Stryver, laughing boastfully, though I dont prefer any claim to being the soul of Romance for I hope I know better, still I am a tenderer sort of fellow than you.
austen|There is not one of his tenants or servants but will give him a good name.
dickens|Enough that I saw no gate then, and that I saw one now.
austen|When the ladies returned to the drawingroom after dinner, Emma found it hardly possible to prevent their making two distinct parties;with so much perseverance in judging and behaving ill did Mrs Elton engross Jane Fairfax and slight herself.
austen|One set might recommend their all removing to Donwell, and leaving Hartfield for the John Knightleys; and another might predict disagreements among their servants; but yet, upon the whole, there was no serious objection raised, except in one habitation, the Vicarage.
austen|But above all, above respect and esteem, there was a motive within her of goodwill which could not be overlooked.
dickens|O Mr Carton, think again!
dickens|He had taken these lists from the drawer of the prisoners desk.
dickens|I kept my ears open, seeming to have them shut, until I heard that he was absent, and I thought that would be the best time for making the attempt.
austen|Every thing being settled between them, Mr Darcys next step was to make your uncle acquainted with it, and he first called in Gracechurch street the evening before I came home.
dickens|Miss Havisham and I had never stopped all this time, but kept going round and round the room; now brushing against the skirts of the visitors, now giving them the whole length of the dismal chamber.
dickens|Two or three times, the matter in hand became so knotty, that the jackal found it imperative on him to get up, and steep his towels anew.
austen|I answered it within an hour; but from the confusion of my mind, and the multiplicity of business falling on me at once, my answer, instead of being sent with all the many other letters of that day, was locked up in my writingdesk; and I, trusting that I had written enough, though but a few lines, to satisfy her, remained without any uneasiness.
austen|Mr and Mrs Gardiner had hurried back in alarm, supposing by the servants account that their niece was taken suddenly ill; but satisfying them instantly on that head, she eagerly communicated the cause of their summons, reading the two letters aloud, and dwelling on the postscript of the last with trembling energy.
dickens|This again was heightened by a certain gypsy character that set the banquet off; for while the table was, as Mr Pumblechook might have said, the lap of luxury,being entirely furnished forth from the coffeehouse,the circumjacent region of sittingroom was of a comparatively pastureless and shifty character; imposing on the waiter the wandering habits of putting the covers on the floor where he fell over them, the melted butter in the armchair, the bread on the bookshelves, the cheese in the coalscuttle, and the boiled fowl into my bed in the next room,where I found much of its parsley and butter in a state of congelation when I retired for the night.
dickens|A woman of orderly and industrious appearance rose from her knees in a corner, with sufficient haste and trepidation to show that she was the person referred to.
austen|There can be no doubt of its being written for you and to you.
dickens|Did you hear that he was dead, Joe?
dickens|There was a courtyard in front, and that was barred; so we had to wait, after ringing the bell, until some one should come to open it.
austen|I shall never let that book go out of my own hands, said she.
dickens|Oh!
dickens|Being at last touched on the shoulder, I started and turned.
dickens|To sleep?
austen|That there was to be such a party had been long generally known it had even given the idea of another.
austen|It is not the object of this work to give a description of Derbyshire, nor of any of the remarkable places through which their route thither lay; Oxford, Blenheim, Warwick, Kenilworth, Birmingham, etc.
dickens|I was, and I am, sensible that the air of this chamber, in its strong combination of stable with soupstock, might have led one to infer that the coaching department was not doing well, and that the enterprising proprietor was boiling down the horses for the refreshment department.
dickens|Papers and precious matters were this very day brought to us here I speak in strict confidence; it is not businesslike to whisper it, even to you, by the strangest bearers you can imagine, every one of whom had his head hanging on by a single hair as he passed the Barriers.
dickens|Her hair was torn and ragged, and her arms were bound to her sides with sashes and handkerchiefs.
austen|Her way was clear, though not quite smooth.
dickens|If on the contrary you mean to say Here, to his great amazement, he was stopped by Joes suddenly working round him with every demonstration of a fell pugilistic purpose.
dickens|Men of business may speak to Mr Darnay now?
austen|It was a long time before she became at all reconciled to the idea of so unsuitable a match.
dickens|She said, however, that the cognac was flattered, and took up her knitting.
dickens|You mean that you cant accept  How can I?
dickens|From this room, many such dogs have been taken out to be hanged; in the next room my bedroom, one fellow, to our knowledge, was poniarded on the spot for professing some insolent delicacy respecting his daughterhis daughter?
dickens|I will, with your leave, relate to you, miss, the story of one of our customers.
dickens|At last I done it.
austen|Everybody was surprised, and Darcy, after looking at her for a moment, turned silently away.
austen|Emma smiled and chatted as cheerfully as she could, to keep him from such thoughts; but when tea came, it was impossible for him not to say exactly as he had said at dinner,  Poor Miss Taylor!
austen|But they always do, you know.
austen|Oh!
austen|In the intervals of her discourse with Mrs Collins, she addressed a variety of questions to Maria and Elizabeth, but especially to the latter, of whose connections she knew the least, and who she observed to Mrs Collins was a very genteel, pretty kind of girl.
dickens|Yet the room was all in all to me, Estella being in it.
dickens|The lime was burning with a sluggish stifling smell, but the fires were made up and left, and no workmen were visible.
dickens|My good Handel, is it not obvious that with Newgate in the next street, there must be far greater hazard in your breaking your mind to him and making him reckless, here, than elsewhere?
dickens|Thieves and thieftakers hung in dread rapture on his words, and shrank when a hair of his eyebrows turned in their direction.
dickens|When I was old enough, I was to be apprenticed to Joe, and until I could assume that dignity I was not to be what Mrs Joe called Pompeyed, or as I render it pampered.
dickens|For was it not, said Joe, with his old air of lucid exposition, that my only wish were to be useful to you, I should not have had the honor of breaking wittles in the company and abode of gentlemen.
austen|It is a dreadful thing to have you forced to live there!
austen|Jane and Elizabeth looked at each other, and the waiter was told he need not stay.
austen|I know what thorough justice you will do it, and have scarcely a doubt of its happy effect.
austen|My character has ever been celebrated for its sincerity and frankness, and in a cause of such moment as this, I shall certainly not depart from it.
dickens|But there was recompense in the joy with which Herbert would come home of a night and tell me of these changes, little imagining that he told me no news, and would sketch airy pictures of himself conducting Clara Barley to the land of the Arabian Nights, and of me going out to join them with a caravan of camels, I believe, and of our all going up the Nile and seeing wonders.
austen|Had they fixed on any other man it would have been nothing; but his perfect indifference, and your pointed dislike, make it so delightfully absurd!
dickens|It had been moving towards me, but it stood still.
austen|She had sent while dressing, and the answer had been, Much the samenot better.
dickens|She had been in one of her bad statesthough they had got better of late, rather than worsefor four days, when she came out of it in the evening, just at teatime, and said quite plainly, Joe.
dickens|In secret, too, grumbled the gaoler, looking at the written paper.
austen|To be sure I am.
dickens|But I dont know how to originate, in such a case.
dickens|Is it likely that the trouble of one wife and mother would be much to us now?
dickens|She looked all round the room in a glaring manner, and then said, leaning on me while her hand twitched my shoulder, Come, come, come!
austen|Nothing can be farther from pleasure than to be dancing in a crowdand a crowd in a little room!
dickens|Either you know it, or you dont know it.
austen|Mrs Weston remained with Mr Woodhouse.
austen|But perhaps he may be a little whimsical in his civilities, replied her uncle.
austen|How soon any other wishes introduced themselves I can hardly tell, but I believe in about half an hour after I had seen you.
austen|Upon my word, said her ladyship, you give your opinion very decidedly for so young a person.
austen|She was not struck by any thing remarkably clever in Miss Smiths conversation, but she found her altogether very engagingnot inconveniently shy, not unwilling to talkand yet so far from pushing, shewing so proper and becoming a deference, seeming so pleasantly grateful for being admitted to Hartfield, and so artlessly impressed by the appearance of every thing in so superior a style to what she had been used to, that she must have good sense, and deserve encouragement.
dickens|asks Lucie, clinging to the old man.
dickens|Tremendous!
austen|And what has been done, what has been attempted, to recover her?
austen|It was not thought necessary in Sir Lewis de Bourghs family.
dickens|Mr Lorrys business eye read in the speakers face that it was loss of time to dwell upon the point.
austen|Oh!
dickens|, and within four months I assumed my first undivided responsibility.
dickens|returned my sister.
austen|Our poor ball must be quite given up.
austen|You have been no friend to Harriet Smith, Emma.
austen|cried Harriet indignantly.
dickens|His hurried right hand parcelled out the herbs before him into imaginary beds of flowers in a garden; and his efforts to control and steady his breathing shook the lips from which the colour rushed to his heart.
austen|That is his notion of Christian forgiveness!
dickens|Leisurely, our four horses are taken out; leisurely, the coach stands in the little street, bereft of horses, and with no likelihood upon it of ever moving again; leisurely, the new horses come into visible existence, one by one; leisurely, the new postilions follow, sucking and plaiting the lashes of their whips; leisurely, the old postilions count their money, make wrong additions, and arrive at dissatisfied results.
dickens|Recalled!
austen|Three things very dull indeed.
austen|An old story, probablya common caseand no more than has happened to hundreds of my sex before; and yet it may not be the more excusable in one who sets up as I do for Understanding.
dickens|There was no indispensable necessity for my communicating with Joe by letter, inasmuch as he sat beside me and we were alone.
dickens|It is.
dickens|Joe and Biddy were very sympathetic and pleasant when I spoke of our approaching separation; but they only referred to it when I did.
austen|He was a married man, with only one living child, a girl, about Janes age and Jane became their guest, paying them long visits and growing a favourite with all; and before she was nine years old, his daughters great fondness for her, and his own wish of being a real friend, united to produce an offer from Colonel Campbell of undertaking the whole charge of her education.
dickens|I have been thrown among one family of your relations, Miss Havisham, and have been constantly among them since I went to London.
austen|My mother was taken ill immediately, and the whole house in such confusion!
dickens|These precautions well understood by both of us, I went home.
austen|Mr Darcy replied with great intrepidity  Miss Elizabeth Bennet.
austen|Their visitors were not to remain above ten days with them.
austen|Thank you, sir, but a less agreeable man would satisfy me.
austen|and a few lines at the same time by the post, stating her extreme surprize at not having had the smallest reply to her last; and adding, that as silence on such a point could not be misconstrued, and as it must be equally desirable to both to have every subordinate arrangement concluded as soon as possible, she now sent me, by a safe conveyance, all my letters, and requested, that if I could not directly command hers, so as to send them to Highbury within a week, I would forward them after that period to her at in short, the full direction to Mr Smallridges, near Bristol, stared me in the face.
dickens|I decided, that day, to write privately to the Minister, stating the nature of the two cases to which I had been summoned, and the place to which I had gone in effect, stating all the circumstances.
austen|Emma could not deplore her future absence as any deduction from her own enjoyment.
dickens|said I, stopping before Herbert, with my open hands held out, as if they contained the desperation of the case.
austen|He had been some time with Mr Gardiner, who, with two or three other gentlemen from the house, was engaged by the river, and had left him only on learning that the ladies of the family intended a visit to Georgiana that morning.
dickens|There are only the usual odours.
austen|He does not read?
dickens|He would count as one head, observed Jacques Three, in a low voice.
austen|No, indeed, I shall grant you nothing.
dickens|Fire away!
dickens|said Mr Jaggers.
dickens|Did I hurt you?
dickens|Yet Estella was so inseparable from all my restlessness and disquiet of mind, that I really fell into confusion as to the limits of my own part in its production.
austen|It is a great change; and though she is amazingly fortunatesuch a situation, I suppose, as no young woman before ever met with on first going outdo not think us ungrateful, Miss Woodhouse, for such surprising good fortuneagain dispersing her tearsbut, poor dear soul!
dickens|said Jerry, more hoarsely than before.
dickens|I held on tight, while Mrs Joe and Joe ran to him.
austen|And I hope she will be better off in one respect, and not be induced to go away after it has been her home so long.
dickens|Pooh!
austen|With all the spirits she could command, she prepared him first for something strange, and then, in a few words, said, that if his consent and approbation could be obtainedwhich, she trusted, would be attended with no difficulty, since it was a plan to promote the happiness of allshe and Mr Knightley meant to marry; by which means Hartfield would receive the constant addition of that persons company whom she knew he loved, next to his daughters and Mrs Weston, best in the world.
dickens|O no,I think not, Biddy.
dickens|And now it appears theyre firing warning of another.
dickens|When he come to the grave, said our conductor, he showed his cloak beautiful.
dickens|Wemmick, said I, do you remember telling me, before I first went to Mr Jaggerss private house, to notice that housekeeper?
dickens|When we passed through Hammersmith, I showed her where Mr Matthew Pocket lived, and said it was no great way from Richmond, and that I hoped I should see her sometimes.
austen|Perhaps that is not possible for anyone.
austen|I have never heard him say so; but it is probable that he may spend very little of his time there in the future.
dickens|The figure in the chair between them, was all the time monotonously rocking itself to and fro, and moaning.
austen|Oh, lord!
austen|Miss Bennet was therefore established as a sweet girl, and their brother felt authorized by such commendation to think of her as he chose.
austen|They were called on to share in the awkwardness of a rather long interval between the courses, and obliged to be as formal and as orderly as the others; but when the table was again safely covered, when every corner dish was placed exactly right, and occupation and ease were generally restored, Emma said,  The arrival of this pianoforte is decisive with me.
dickens|But he really is disinterested, and above small jealousy and spite, I have heard?
dickens|Why should he suppose it necessary to be purified by suffering for his holiday clothes?
dickens|The billet fell as he spoke, and he threw it into a basket.
austen|Jane and Elizabeth tried to explain to her the nature of an entail.
dickens|Ay, Pip, replied Miss Havisham, steadily nodding her head; you did.
dickens|cried Biddy, in a burst of happiness, and I am married to Joe!
dickens|It is out of the Consolation and restoration you have brought to me, that these remembrances arise, and pass between us and the moon on this last night.
dickens|Examined with attention, its capacity of helping such a look was to be found in the line of the mouth, and the lines of the orbits of the eyes, being much too horizontal and thin; still, in the effect of the face made, it was a handsome face, and a remarkable one.
austen|Jane will be quite an old maid soon, I declare.
dickens|My selfapproval when I ticked an entry was quite a luxurious sensation.
austen|exclaimed Mr Knightley loudly and warmly; and with calmer asperity, added, a few moments afterwards, No, he is not her equal indeed, for he is as much her superior in sense as in situation.
austen|When the ladies returned to the drawingroom, there was little to be done but to hear Lady Catherine talk, which she did without any intermission till coffee came in, delivering her opinion on every subject in so decisive a manner, as proved that she was not used to have her judgement controverted.
dickens|the spy repeated; with not quite so much confidence, or quite so easy a smile under the stare.
dickens|What is your own experience of him?
austen|Her heart was divided between concern for her sister, and resentment against all others.
dickens|It was no laughing matter with Estella now, nor was she summoning these remembrances from any shallow place.
dickens|oh!
austen|Certainly.
dickens|Besides, that shrinking from having Miss Havisham and Estella discussed, which had come upon me in the beginning, grew much more potent as time went on.
austen|It was to be such a secret!
dickens|As to you, Joe pursued with a countenance expressive of seeing something very nasty indeed, if you could have been aware how small and flabby and mean you was, dear me, youd have formed the most contemptible opinion of yourself!
dickens|The master refusing to entertain the subject until the journeyman was in a better temper, Orlick plunged at the furnace, drew out a redhot bar, made at me with it as if he were going to run it through my body, whisked it round my head, laid it on the anvil, hammered it out,as if it were I, I thought, and the sparks were my spirting blood,and finally said, when he had hammered himself hot and the iron cold, and he again leaned on his hammer,  Now, master!
dickens|I dont care about fortune she is a charming creature, and I have made up my mind to please myself on the whole, I think I can afford to please myself.
austen|It may make many things intelligible and excusable which now are not to be understood.
austen|I am sure you will be very comfortable there.
austen|This is brilliant indeed!
dickens|She did not know that the girl was dead.
austen|You shall not defend her, though it is Charlotte Lucas.
austen|My dear Emma, we must consider this.
austen|You do not think I could mean you, or suppose Mr Knightley to mean you.
austen|Leave out the two last lines, and there is no reason why you should not write it into your book.
dickens|No, Miss Havisham.
austen|She was rather low all the evening, but Emma could allow for her amiable regrets, and sometimes relieved them by speaking of her own affection, sometimes by bringing forward the idea of Mr Elton.
dickens|The supposed Evremonde descends, and the seamstress is lifted out next after him.
austen|It would be a great pleasure to know Robert Martin.
dickens|Not as usual, I said, for she had never yet gone there without me; when was she coming back?
austen|excellent time.
austen|True, true, he answered, warmly.
dickens|And how long do you remain?
dickens|And when it had come to this, the soldiers ran like deer, and Joe too.
austen|thought Emma.
austen|The Frank Churchill so long talked of, so high in interest, was actually before herhe was presented to her, and she did not think too much had been said in his praise; he was a very good looking young man; height, air, address, all were unexceptionable, and his countenance had a great deal of the spirit and liveliness of his fathers; he looked quick and sensible.
austen|This would be a trial.
austen|For herself she was humbled; but she was proud of him.
dickens|May I ask, sir, if you think she is As he hesitated, her father supplied the rest.
dickens|Because I mean to do it all myself.
austen|Jane!
dickens|Look at him!
austen|Can you possibly guess, Lizzy, who is meant by this?
dickens|We lived at the top of the last house, and the wind rushing up the river shook the house that night, like discharges of cannon, or breakings of a sea.
austen|She finds Miss Pope a treasure.
dickens|Slight displacements of the raging sea, made by the falling wounded.
austen|I was never more annoyed!
austen|How would he bear to have Miss Bates belonging to him?
dickens|I do ask it.
dickens|Why does he make that abominable noise?
dickens|And was thatHonor!
austen|Delighted to hear it indeed.
dickens|Defarge had described himself, that day, as the keeper of a wineshop in the Saint Antoine suburb.
dickens|God knows as I forgive you, if I have anythink to forgive!
dickens|With a wild rattle and clatter, and an inhuman abandonment of consideration not easy to be understood in these days, the carriage dashed through streets and swept round corners, with women screaming before it, and men clutching each other and clutching children out of its way.
dickens|There were some people slinking about as usual when we passed out into the street, who were evidently anxious to speak with him; but there was something so conclusive in the halo of scented soap which encircled his presence, that they gave it up for that day.
dickens|returned Wemmick.
austen|Thank you, thank youbut on no account.
dickens|But, the theatres were all well filled, and the people poured cheerfully out as he passed, and went chatting home.
dickens|Youre a listening and understanding, Pip?
dickens|Nevertheless, I knew, while I said those words, that I secretly intended to revisit the site of the old house that evening, alone, for her sake.
dickens|Both resorted to the drinkingtable without stint, but each in a different way; the lion for the most part reclining with his hands in his waistband, looking at the fire, or occasionally flirting with some lighter document; the jackal, with knitted brows and intent face, so deep in his task, that his eyes did not even follow the hand he stretched out for his glasswhich often groped about, for a minute or more, before it found the glass for his lips.
austen|That is not very likely; our authority was too good.
austen|Why will not you write one yourself for us, Mr Elton?
austen|They owed the restoration of Lydia, her character, every thing, to him.
dickens|Judging from myself, I should say he certainly had a turn afterwards, if he had had none before.
dickens|A favourite at the Old Bailey, and eke at the Sessions, Mr Stryver had begun cautiously to hew away the lower staves of the ladder on which he mounted.
austen|Will not it be beautiful in her dark hair?
dickens|In crossing the bridge, she dropped the door key in the river.
austen|To Mr Bennets acknowledgments he briefly replied, with assurance of his eagerness to promote the welfare of any of his family; and concluded with entreaties that the subject might never be mentioned to him again.
dickens|Jane only interfered for the protection of baby.
austen|If I may so express it, he has a right to be proud.
dickens|It may be the character of his mind, to be always in singular need of occupation.
dickens|He had not a handsome face, but it was better than handsome being extremely amiable and cheerful.
dickens|His manner was so fervent and inspiring, that Mr Lorry caught the flame, and was as quick as youth.
dickens|I reminded her where she had come out of the house and given me my meat and drink, and she said, I dont remember.
dickens|Miss Lucie at home?
dickens|You apprehend me very clearly, Mr Barsad.
dickens|Because, returned the sergeant, clapping him on the shoulder, youre a man that knows whats what.
austen|As a walking companion, Emma had very early foreseen how useful she might find her.
austen|Much had been done and much had been said in the regiment since the preceding Wednesday; several of the officers had dined lately with their uncle, a private had been flogged, and it had actually been hinted that Colonel Forster was going to be married.
dickens|and sat listening.
austen|I rather doubt that.
dickens|The two hands of Madame Defarge buffeted and tore her face; but, Miss Pross, with her head down, held her round the waist, and clung to her with more than the hold of a drowning woman.
austen|The affection of such a man as Mr Elton would have been too great a distinction.
dickens|Quite overpowered by the magnificence of these transactions, I asked him where the ships he insured mostly traded to at present?
austen|I cannot comprehend the neglect of a family library in such days as these.
austen|Had they no apprehension of anything before the elopement took place?
dickens|It was with considerable difficulty that I won him over to the assumption of a dress more like a prosperous farmers; and we arranged that he should cut his hair close, and wear a little powder.
dickens|It was the one grain of relief I had.
austen|Mr Bennet could not have chosen better.
dickens|Drawing his arm through his own, he took him down Ludgatehill to Fleetstreet, and so, up a covered way, into a tavern.
austen|And ever since she was twelve, Emma has been mistress of the house and of you all.
dickens|I think you would always improve, Biddy, under any circumstances.
austen|Jane Fairfax is absolutely charming, Miss Woodhouse.
dickens|It was a weak complaint to have made, and I had not meant to make it.
austen|When she thought of her mother, her confidence gave way a little; but she would not allow that any objections there had material weight with Mr Darcy, whose pride, she was convinced, would receive a deeper wound from the want of importance in his friends connections, than from their want of sense; and she was quite decided, at last, that he had been partly governed by this worst kind of pride, and partly by the wish of retaining Mr Bingley for his sister.
austen|I am quite ready.
dickens|This was so very aggravatingthe more especially as I found myself making no way against his surly obtusenessthat I said, disregarding Herberts efforts to check me,  Come, Mr Drummle, since we are on the subject, Ill tell you what passed between Herbert here and me, when you borrowed that money.
austen|You are lucky in having such a master.
dickens|When he called at my lodgings in London.
austen|I trust, at least, that you do not think Mr Knightley looking ill, turning her eyes with affectionate anxiety towards her husband.
austen|That is exactly the question which I expected you to ask.
dickens|Citizen Evremonde, she said, touching him with her cold hand.
austen|With a triumphant smile they were told that it was ten miles round.
dickens|It made us all lethargic before we had gone far, and when we had left the Halfway House behind, we habitually dozed and shivered and were silent.
dickens|It is the daughter of your father who is my business here.
dickens|The wind is rushing after us, and the clouds are flying after us, and the moon is plunging after us, and the whole wild night is in pursuit of us; but, so far, we are pursued by nothing else.
dickens|I have lived with the darlingor the darling has lived with me, and paid me for it; which she certainly should never have done, you may take your affidavit, if I could have afforded to keep either myself or her for nothingsince she was ten years old.
austen|Whatever money he might come into when his father died, whatever his share of the family property, it is, I dare say, all afloat, all employed in his stock, and so forth; and though, with diligence and good luck, he may be rich in time, it is next to impossible that he should have realised any thing yet.
dickens|The woodsawyer, who held her in the respect, and himself in the submission, of mortal fear, advanced with his hand to his red cap.
dickens|Help, gentlemenofficers!
austen|He owed a good deal in town, but his debts of honour were still more formidable.
austen|She opened the packet; it was too surely so;a note from Mrs Weston to herself, ushered in the letter from Frank to Mrs Weston.
austen|A reasonable visit paid, Mr Weston began to move.
dickens|said Joe.
austen|She had heard, as soon as she got back to Mrs Goddards, that Mr Martin had been there an hour before, and finding she was not at home, nor particularly expected, had left a little parcel for her from one of his sisters, and gone away; and on opening this parcel, she had actually found, besides the two songs which she had lent Elizabeth to copy, a letter to herself; and this letter was from him, from Mr Martin, and contained a direct proposal of marriage.
dickens|You bring the lot to me, at that old Battery over yonder.
austen|As a sort of touchstone, however, she began to speak of his kindness in conveying the aunt and niece; and though his answer was in the spirit of cutting the matter short, she believed it to indicate only his disinclination to dwell on any kindness of his own.
austen|You must not confound us with London in general, my dear sir.
dickens|So!
austen|She then sat still five minutes longer; but unable to waste such a precious occasion, she suddenly got up, and saying to Kitty, Come here, my love, I want to speak to you, took her out of the room.
austen|In our communications we deal only in the great.
dickens|When at last I dozed, in sheer exhaustion of mind and body, it became a vast shadowy verb which I had to conjugate.
dickens|and another voice, Convicts!
dickens|Mr Trabbs boy was the most audacious boy in all that countryside.
austen|And Emma had the advantage of hearing her own silly compliment repeated twice over before the good old lady could comprehend it.
austen|No one admitted to the privilege of hearing you can think anything wanting.
austen|But that would not do.
austen|Good morning to you.
dickens|The halfhour and the rum and water running out together, Joe got up to go, and took me by the hand.
dickens|They had a sinister expression, under an old cockedhat like a threecornered spittoon, and over a great muffler for the chin and throat, which descended nearly to the wearers knees.
austen|I do not advise the custard.
austen|You are extremely kind, replied Miss Bates, highly gratified; you who are such a judge, and write so beautifully yourself.
dickens|It was easy to make sure that as yet he knew me no more than if he had never seen me in his life.
dickens|I went circuitously to Miss Havishams by all the back ways, and rang at the bell constrainedly, on account of the stiff long fingers of my gloves.
dickens|Goodbye, Aged Parent!
austen|Putting away the letter immediately and forcing a smile, she said  I did not know before that you ever walked this way.
dickens|When you have once made your capital, you have nothing to do but employ it.
dickens|And now the range of marshes lay clear before us, with the sails of the ships on the river growing out of it; and we went into the churchyard, close to the graves of my unknown parents, Philip Pirrip, late of this parish, and Also Georgiana, Wife of the Above.
austen|At length, with a voice of forced calmness, he said  And this is all the reply which I am to have the honour of expecting!
dickens|Responding to his softened manner, Mr Lorry answered  Twenty years back, yes; at this time of my life, no.
dickens|A moment, and it was gone.
dickens|After an hour or so of this travelling, we came to a rough wooden hut and a landingplace.
austen|There had been a time when he would have scorned her as a companion, and turned from her with little ceremony.
dickens|The mother looked young, and the daughter looked old; the mothers complexion was pink, and the daughters was yellow; the mother set up for frivolity, and the daughter for theology.
dickens|Dear me!
austen|He is in Highbury every now and then, and he is sure to ride through every week in his way to Kingston.
dickens|Sending her out to attract and torment and do mischief, Miss Havisham sent her with the malicious assurance that she was beyond the reach of all admirers, and that all who staked upon that cast were secured to lose.
austen|And I hate Italian singing.
dickens|Still, we went at an impatient fitful speed, and as we went, she twitched the hand upon my shoulder, and worked her mouth, and led me to believe that we were going fast because her thoughts went fast.
dickens|Will you let me believe, when I recall this day, that the last confidence of my life was reposed in your pure and innocent breast, and that it lies there alone, and will be shared by no one?
austen|I could not bear the idea of it; so, as soon as Mr Weston came into the room, and I could get at him, I spoke to him about the carriage.
austen|They were able to love each other even as well as they intended.
dickens|As she withdrew her hands from it, she fell back a step or two, nervously muttering some excuse.
dickens|The guns have been going since dark, about.
dickens|Straight!
austen|I wish I could call her amiable.
austen|Mrs Goddard, and the teachers, and the girls and the affairs of the school in general, formed naturally a great part of the conversationand but for her acquaintance with the Martins of AbbeyMill Farm, it must have been the whole.
dickens|I answered, more in shyness than politeness, After you, miss.
austen|He was soon pretty well resigned.
dickens|Yes, sir.
dickens|He made shoes, he made shoes, he made shoes.
austen|His apparent partiality had subsided, his attentions were over, he was the admirer of some one else.
dickens|I wonder you condescend to come back to such poor society as this, I am sure I do!
dickens|So it was.
dickens|The chateau awoke later, as became its quality, but awoke gradually and surely.
austen|He cut her short with,  I am going to Kingston.
dickens|Glad to part again, Estella?
dickens|There was an air of utter loneliness upon her, that would have moved me to pity though she had wilfully done me a deeper injury than I could charge her with.
dickens|Tell me of my ingratitude.
austen|You cannot do better, sir.
dickens|You want a promise from me.
dickens|The allusion served as a timely reminder to Darnay that this disagreeable companion had, of his own free will, assisted him in the strait of the day.
dickens|Mr Stryver is here too, occasionally.
austen|and her calling here was prodigiously civil!
dickens|Lucie sat by her father; Darnay sat beside her; Carton leaned against a window.
austen|Yes.
austen|What can it possibly be?
austen|She lost all concern for him in finding herself thus selected as the object of such idle and frivolous gallantry; and while she steadily repressed it, could not but feel the reproof contained in his believing, that however long, and for whatever cause, his attentions had been withdrawn, her vanity would be gratified, and her preference secured at any time by their renewal.
austen|That is the place to get husbands.
dickens|Lucie and her father!
austen|Although in one instance the bearers of not good tidings, Mr and Mrs Westons visit this morning was in another respect particularly opportune.
austen|You are to understand, Miss Bennet, that I came here with the determined resolution of carrying my purpose; nor will I be dissuaded from it.
austen|I am sure, said she, I cried for two days together when Colonel Millers regiment went away.
austen|There appeared such a perfectly good understanding among them all  he began rather quickly, but checking himself, added, however, it is impossible for me to say on what terms they really werehow it might all be behind the scenes.
dickens|You with a pleasant home?
austen|I was fatigued.
dickens|You with an old father, and you with pleasant and playful ways?
austen|One days delay, she observed, would be of small importance; and her mother was too happy to be quite so obstinate as usual.
austen|She saw in a moment all the possible good.
austen|Beautiful lace!
dickens|Monseigneur, hear me!
dickens|No man spoke, but the steersman held up his hand, and all softly backed water, and kept the boat straight and true before it.
austen|I am not prejudiced.
dickens|the face of Evremonde is for a moment turned towards him.
dickens|She was up and down with Gruffandgrim all the evening.
austen|But her mind had never been in such perturbation; and it needed a very strong effort to appear attentive and cheerful till the usual hour of separating allowed her the relief of quiet reflection.
dickens|Mrs Whimple, said Herbert, when I told him so, is the best of housewives, and I really do not know what my Clara would do without her motherly help.
austen|Her teeth are tolerable, but not out of the common way; and as for her eyes, which have sometimes been called so fine, I could never see anything extraordinary in them.
austen|After abusing you so abominably to your face, I could have no scruple in abusing you to all your relations.
austen|After walking some time in this way, the two ladies in front, the two gentlemen behind, on resuming their places, after descending to the brink of the river for the better inspection of some curious waterplant, there chanced to be a little alteration.
austen|Mrs Elton was first seen at church but though devotion might be interrupted, curiosity could not be satisfied by a bride in a pew, and it must be left for the visits in form which were then to be paid, to settle whether she were very pretty indeed, or only rather pretty, or not pretty at all.
austen|A large debt of gratitude was owing here; but the intercourse of the last seven years, the equal footing and perfect unreserve which had soon followed Isabellas marriage, on their being left to each other, was yet a dearer, tenderer recollection.
dickens|We never should have got leave to go, I am sure, but for Mrs Joes curiosity to know all about it and how it ended.
austen|Your uncle and aunt will never allow you to leave England.
dickens|The escorted governed his own horse, but a loose line was attached to his bridle, the end of which one of the patriots kept girded round his wrist.
dickens|I never met such a liar as you!
austen|It was foolish, it was wrong, to take so active a part in bringing any two people together.
dickens|The having originated a precaution which was already in course of execution, was a great relief to Miss Pross.
dickens|Oh ah!
austen|Emma, alone with her father, had half her attention wanted by him while he lamented that young people would be in such a hurry to marryand to marry strangers tooand the other half she could give to her own view of the subject.
austen|Those who can barely live, and who live perforce in a very small, and generally very inferior, society, may well be illiberal and cross.
austen|Mr Elton was still talking, still engaged in some interesting detail; and Emma experienced some disappointment when she found that he was only giving his fair companion an account of the yesterdays party at his friend Coles, and that she was come in herself for the Stilton cheese, the north Wiltshire, the butter, the celery, the beetroot, and all the dessert.
dickens|Do the days when you sat at your mothers knee, seem days of very long ago?
austen|Harriet felt this too much to utter more than a few words of eager exclamation.
austen|Better accommodations, he can promise them, and not a less grateful welcome than at Randalls.
austen|He has children of his own, and may have more.
austen|It was folly to be disturbed by it.
austen|They could have been understood only by her mother, who might have felt nearly the same.
austen|Miss Bates, in her real anxiety for Jane, could hardly stay even to be grateful, before she stept forward and put an end to all farther singing.
austen|He can sit down and write a fine flourishing letter, full of professions and falsehoods, and persuade himself that he has hit upon the very best method in the world of preserving peace at home and preventing his fathers having any right to complain.
dickens|And have you been here all that time, dear Joe?
austen|My regard for Hartfield is most warm  He stopt again, rose again, and seemed quite embarrassed.
austen|I had not believed it possible.
austen|The rest of the day, the following night, were hardly enough for her thoughts.
austen|Her looks and words had nothing to restrain them.
austen|Emma could not speak.
dickens|demanded Number One.
dickens|Listen!
austen|She saw that Enscombe could not satisfy, and that Highbury, taken at its best, might reasonably please a young man who had more retirement at home than he liked.
austen|you are a great deal too apt, you know, to like people in general.
dickens|The jackal then invigorated himself with a bumper for his throttle, and a fresh application to his head, and applied himself to the collection of a second meal; this was administered to the lion in the same manner, and was not disposed of until the clocks struck three in the morning.
austen|The promised letter of thanks from Mr Collins arrived on Tuesday, addressed to their father, and written with all the solemnity of gratitude which a twelvemonths abode in the family might have prompted.
dickens|Upon this Clara said to Herbert, Papa wants me, darling!
dickens|As yet, none.
dickens|Recollect yourself!
austen|You provide for the family, you know, with a smile at his father.
dickens|I am.
dickens|I had pulled down as far as Greenwich with the ebb tide, and had turned with the tide.
austen|What a pity it is, mamma, we did not all go.
dickens|I cant see.
dickens|Now, here, replied Mr Jaggers, fixing me for the first time with his dark deepset eyes, we must revert to the evening when we first encountered one another in your village.
austen|Very true, Mr Weston, perfectly true.
austen|The families who had been in town for the winter came back again, and summer finery and summer engagements arose.
austen|She is not such a simpleton.
austen|On opening the door, she perceived her sister and Bingley standing together over the hearth, as if engaged in earnest conversation; and had this led to no suspicion, the faces of both, as they hastily turned round and moved away from each other, would have told it all.
austen|Would to Heaven that anything could be either said or done on my part that might offer consolation to such distress!
dickens|And then he took us home and hammered us.
dickens|I was guarded in my answer, for I was troubled in my mind with what I had heard and seen.
austen|Oh!
austen|exclaimed Emma.
dickens|I could not help looking at the fire, in an obvious state of doubt.
dickens|Which I do assure you, Pip, he would often say, in explanation of that liberty; I found her a tapping the spare bed, like a cask of beer, and drawing off the feathers in a bucket, for sale.
dickens|They were brought in by Flopson and Millers, much as though those two noncommissioned officers had been recruiting somewhere for children and had enlisted these, while Mrs Pocket looked at the young Nobles that ought to have been as if she rather thought she had had the pleasure of inspecting them before, but didnt quite know what to make of them.
dickens|Herbert and I agreed that we could do nothing else but be very cautious.
dickens|Oh, the men, the men!
austen|He had been used to think her unjust to Jane, and had now great pleasure in marking an improvement.
dickens|Now, what do you want with me?
dickens|The lady was young, engaging, and handsome, but not marked for long life.
dickens|Not exactly so.
austen|As for myself, it is many, many years since I first began to think of him in a very different manner.
dickens|A crowbar?
dickens|We have to think of the House more than ourselves.
austen|She had hurried on before her guests to prepare her father for their appearance, and was beyond the reach of Mr Westons hint.
dickens|She is everything to me; more to me than suffering, more to me than wrong, more to meWell!
dickens|Come and fight, said the pale young gentleman.
dickens|If you dont know what I mean, you are blind.
austen|They had been walking about the place with some of their new friends, and were just returning to the inn to dress themselves for dining with the same family, when the sound of a carriage drew them to a window, and they saw a gentleman and a lady in a curricle driving up the street.
austen|He replied, and was again silent.
austen|This room was my late masters favourite room, and these miniatures are just as they used to be then.
austen|My dearest Lizzy will, I am sure, be incapable of triumphing in her better judgement, at my expense, when I confess myself to have been entirely deceived in Miss Bingleys regard for me.
austen|What a good joke it will be!
dickens|Yes, Miss Havisham.
dickens|She locked it after admitting me, as she had done before, and again preceded me into the dark passage where her candle stood.
dickens|But I never thought there was anything low and small in my keeping away from Joe, because I knew she would be contemptuous of him.
austen|Conjectures as to the meaning of it, rapid and wild, hurried into her brain; but she was satisfied with none.
dickens|Yes, she replied; but it meant more than it said.
austen|Robert Martin had probably ceased to think of Harriet.
dickens|He laid his own upon it as he spoke.
dickens|Whether I should have made out this object so soon if there had been no fine lady sitting at it, I cannot say.
austen|I have known him too long and too well to be a fair judge.
austen|I think Harriet is doing extremely well.
austen|Serle understands boiling an egg better than any body.
austen|Letters of business, too!
dickens|Moving the lamp as the man moved, I made out that he was substantially dressed, but roughly, like a voyager by sea.
dickens|I wept to see her, and she wept to see me; I, because she looked so fresh and pleasant; she, because I looked so worn and white.
dickens|He put her hand to his lips, and moved towards the door.
austen|No, indeed, I did not.
austen|I am afraid you must have had a shocking walk.
dickens|And youre late.
austen|Part only of this answer, however, was admitted.
dickens|It was likewise to be noted of this majestic spirit, that whereas it always appeared with an air of having been out a long time and walked an immense distance, it perceptibly came from a closely contiguous wall.
austen|Wellbut if any difficulties should arise, my housekeeper is extremely clever.
dickens|Oh!
dickens|The eye could not detect one creature in the group free from the smear of blood.
dickens|For three heavy hours, the stone faces of the chateau, lion and human, stared blindly at the night.
dickens|She were in poor elth, and quite broke.
dickens|She must be very desolate tonight.
dickens|Perhaps yes, perhaps no.
dickens|The chisel had made three or four of these attempts at embellishment over his nose, but had given them up without an effort to smooth them off.
dickens|I then went from shop to shop, making such purchases as were necessary to the change in his appearance.
austen|He is perfectly well behaved, polite, and unassuming, said her uncle.
austen|As a counsellor she was not wanted; but as an approver, a much safer character, she was truly welcome.
austen|How did you think the Coxes looked?
austen|I wish her extremely well and, no doubt, there are men who might not object toEvery body has their level but as for myself, I am not, I think, quite so much at a loss.
austen|Either in the morning or evening of every day, excepting one, have we seen either Mr Weston or Mrs Weston, and generally both, either at Randalls or hereand as you may suppose, Isabella, most frequently here.
austen|said he; so I just mentioned....
dickens|After each question he tilted me over a little more, so as to give me a greater sense of helplessness and danger.
dickens|All in a moment, with nothing to lead up to it, my sister would stop herself in a yawn, and catching sight of me as it were incidentally, would swoop upon me with, Come!
austen|And touching Miss Bates, who at that moment passed nearMiss Bates, are you mad, to let your niece sing herself hoarse in this manner?
dickens|That ass, Pumblechook, used often to come over of a night for the purpose of discussing my prospects with my sister; and I really do believe to this hour with less penitence than I ought to feel, that if these hands could have taken a linchpin out of his chaisecart, they would have done it.
austen|Elizabeth went away with her head full of him.
austen|Miss Smith, and Miss Bickerton, another parlour boarder at Mrs Goddards, who had been also at the ball, had walked out together, and taken a road, the Richmond road, which, though apparently public enough for safety, had led them into alarm.
austen|You can hardly doubt the purport of my discourse, however your natural delicacy may lead you to dissemble; my attentions have been too marked to be mistaken.
dickens|Mr Cruncher thought it might be best.
dickens|Shall we go home, my father?
austen|I never met with a disposition more truly amiable.
dickens|That he had his reasons for this, he knew full well.
dickens|How long have I been here?
dickens|I went into a coffeehouse to write a little note to Clara, telling her he had gone off, sending his love to her over and over again, and then went to my lonely home,if it deserved the name; for it was now no home to me, and I had no home anywhere.
dickens|Thats where Im going to.
austen|Charlotte hardly had time to answer, before they were joined by Kitty, who came to tell the same news; and no sooner had they entered the breakfastroom, where Mrs Bennet was alone, than she likewise began on the subject, calling on Miss Lucas for her compassion, and entreating her to persuade her friend Lizzy to comply with the wishes of all her family.
austen|Such an immense plantation all round it!
dickens|She resumed her knitting and went out.
austen|They were not welcomed home very cordially by their mother.
austen|You are the worst judge in the world, Mr Knightley, of the difficulties of dependence.
austen|Elizabeth had at first rather wondered that Charlotte should not prefer the diningparlour for common use; it was a better sized room, and had a more pleasant aspect; but she soon saw that her friend had an excellent reason for what she did, for Mr Collins would undoubtedly have been much less in his own apartment, had they sat in one equally lively; and she gave Charlotte credit for the arrangement.
dickens|It looks like it, miss.
austen|Yes, he replied, any body may know how highly I think of her.
austen|Till I have your disposition, your goodness, I never can have your happiness.
dickens|Go on, Jacques, said Defarge.
dickens|I have made it my business to examine some specimens of the writing of Doctor Manette.
dickens|But I had as sound a sleep in that lodging as in the most superior accommodation the Boar could have given me, and the quality of my dreams was about the same as in the best bedroom.
dickens|If you can ever write under my name, I forgive her, though ever so long after my broken heart is dust pray do it!
dickens|Is it a good sign, that he wishes to see Royalty and Nobility?
austen|If you must go, my dear, said I, you must, and I will say you are laid down upon the bed.
austen|Well, go on.
austen|Every thing that is charming!
dickens|The baby was the soul of honor, and protested with all its might.
dickens|Then say the prisoner.
dickens|was the abrupt inquiry that made him start.
dickens|Then, I looked round and saw the disturbed beetles and spiders running away over the floor, and the servants coming in with breathless cries at the door.
dickens|Three or four soldiers who lay upon it in their greatcoats were not much interested in us, but just lifted their heads and took a sleepy stare, and then lay down again.
dickens|The soldiers were in front of us, extending into a pretty wide line with an interval between man and man.
austen|Do not we often talk of Mr Frank Churchill?
austen|You have scolded me too much for matchmaking, for me to presume to take such a liberty with you.
austen|Is my father in town?
austen|Harriet Smith was the natural daughter of somebody.
dickens|Prosperously, but not noticeably otherwise; he thought, in black.
dickens|At length, it was voted that there was no help for the angry gentleman, and that he must either go in his chance company or remain behind.
austen|But you have chosen your fault well.
dickens|I always treated him as a larger species of child, and as no more than my equal.
dickens|said I.
austen|Have you finished it?
dickens|Once more, I stammered with difficulty that I had no objection.
dickens|Mr Pocket took me into the house and showed me my room which was a pleasant one, and so furnished as that I could use it with comfort for my own private sittingroom.
dickens|Or to do anything?
austen|On the contrary, every particular relative to his sister was meant to be kept as much as possible to myself; and if I endeavour to undeceive people as to the rest of his conduct, who will believe me?
austen|No!
dickens|I wonder how she come to know Pip!
dickens|A few faces hurried to glowing windows and looked after us, but none came out.
dickens|In this age, he would have been a Professor; in that age, he was a Tutor.
austen|The united efforts of his two unfeeling sisters and of his overpowering friend, assisted by the attractions of Miss Darcy and the amusements of London might be too much, she feared, for the strength of his attachment.
austen|And if he were to be lost to them for Harriets sake; if he were to be thought of hereafter, as finding in Harriets society all that he wanted; if Harriet were to be the chosen, the first, the dearest, the friend, the wife to whom he looked for all the best blessings of existence; what could be increasing Emmas wretchedness but the reflection never far distant from her mind, that it had been all her own work?
austen|Mary, though pretending not to hear, was somewhat disconcerted; and Elizabeth, sorry for her, and sorry for her fathers speech, was afraid her anxiety had done no good.
dickens|Hereupon they went back to the hotel doubtless at about the time when I was hearing the popular local version of my own story to refresh themselves and to get some one to guide them out upon the marshes.
austen|He bore with philosophy the conviction that Elizabeth must now become acquainted with whatever of his ingratitude and falsehood had before been unknown to her; and in spite of every thing, was not wholly without hope that Darcy might yet be prevailed on to make his fortune.
dickens|Its very massive, said I.
dickens|A good journey!
austen|His rank in society I would alter if I could, which is saying a great deal I assure you, Emma.
austen|But, depend upon it, Mr Collins, she added, that Lizzy shall be brought to reason.
dickens|His removal, to make way for other accused persons who were to be tried, rescued him from these caresses for the moment.
austen|And I should never have expected you to be lending your sanction to such vanitybaits for poor young ladies.
dickens|Well?
austen|And though the consequent shock and alarm was very great and much more durableindeed I believe it was half an hour before any of us were comfortable againyet that was too general a sensation for any thing of peculiar anxiety to be observable.
austen|You and Mr Elton are one as clever as the other.
austen|Had we been met walking together between Donwell and Highbury, the truth must have been suspected.
austen|always wanting me to play and sing before anybody and everybody!
austen|I should imagine not.
austen|But no,recollecting herselfthat could never be; my uncle and aunt would have been lost to me; I should not have been allowed to invite them.
austen|Most strange indeed!
dickens|Not so much so?
austen|I know you are attached to them.
austen|I wonder when you would have spoken, if I had not asked you!
austen|Besides, it will not much signify what one wears this summer, after the shire have left Meryton, and they are going in a fortnight.
dickens|And, my dear Charles, said Mr Lorry, glancing at the House again, you are to remember, that getting things out of Paris at this present time, no matter what things, is next to an impossibility.
austen|They should take care of their health and their complexion.
austen|I do look forward to it, I own, with very great pleasure.
dickens|He lighted the candle from the flaring match with great deliberation, and dropped the match, and trod it out.
dickens|I am he.
austen|If you were sensible of your own good, you would not wish to quit the sphere in which you have been brought up.
austen|My right to place myself in a situation requiring such concealment, is another question.
dickens|But that man said he did not repent of what he had done, Joseph.
dickens|I told him I had come up again to say how sorry I was that anything disagreeable should have occurred, and that I hoped he would not blame me much.
dickens|When he appeared with his stocking disordered its disorder expressed, according to usage, by one very neat fold in the top, which I suppose to be always got up with a flat iron, a conversation took place in the gallery respecting the paleness of his leg, and whether it was occasioned by the turn the ghost had given him.
austen|Is Perry going to set up his carriage, Frank?
austen|I assure you there is quite as much of that going on in the country as in town.
austen|but the gentlemen will have Mr Bingleys chaise to go to Meryton, and the Hursts have no horses to theirs.
dickens|He advised that they should let the time go by until the regular breakfasthour, and should then meet the Doctor as if nothing unusual had occurred.
austen|Can this be Mr Darcy?
dickens|But I must say it now.
dickens|So we fell into other talk, and it was principally about the way by which we were travelling, and about what parts of London lay on this side of it, and what on that.
dickens|Thankye, said Wemmick, shaking hands with him.
austen|Emma could not help laughing as she answered, Upon my word, I believe you know her quite as well as I do.
austen|never, never.
dickens|And Evremonde will be despatched in a wink, and she not here!
dickens|I, my Pross?
austen|How hard it is in some cases to be believed!
dickens|Oh!
dickens|Take a chair, Mr Pip, said my guardian.
dickens|Yes.
austen|He observed to her, at a moment when the others were talking together, and in a tone which had something of real regret, that it was a very long time since he had had the pleasure of seeing her; and, before she could reply, he added, It is above eight months.
dickens|You can bear a little more?
dickens|So contaminated did I feel, remembering who was coming, that the coach came quickly after all, and I was not yet free from the soiling consciousness of Mr Wemmicks conservatory, when I saw her face at the coach window and her hand waving to me.
dickens|Therefore, fearing he should be called upon to depose about this destroyed child, and so be the cause of her death, he hid himself much as he grieved for the child, kept himself dark, as he says, out of the way and out of the trial, and was only vaguely talked of as a certain man called Abel, out of whom the jealousy arose.
austen|He thought too well of himself to comprehend on what motives his cousin could refuse him; and though his pride was hurt, he suffered in no other way.
dickens|In looking at me and then laughing heartily, Herbert for the time recovered his usual lively manner.
austen|oh!
dickens|I think so, too.
austen|Smallridge!
dickens|Mr Lorry grasped his hand in return, and neither of the two spoke for a little while.
austen|He is now, perhaps, sorry for what he has done, and anxious to reestablish a character.
austen|How shocked had he been by her behaviour to Miss Bates!
dickens|Unfortunately the morning was drizzly, and an angel could not have concealed the fact that Barnard was shedding sooty tears outside the window, like some weak giant of a Sweep.
dickens|All was subdued and quiet, and Lucie was more at ease than she had been.
dickens|My narrative finished, and their questions exhausted, I then produced Miss Havishams authority to receive the nine hundred pounds for Herbert.
dickens|She read me what she had written; and it was direct and clear, and evidently intended to absolve me from any suspicion of profiting by the receipt of the money.
austen|But between us, I am convinced there never can be any likeness, except in being unmarried.
dickens|She uttered the word with an eager look, and with strong emphasis, and with a weird smile that had a kind of boast in it.
dickens|Lo, Miss Pross, in harness of string, awakening the echoes, as an unruly charger, whipcorrected, snorting and pawing the earth under the planetree in the garden!
dickens|The obscurity was so difficult to penetrate that Mr Lorry, picking his way over the wellworn Turkey carpet, supposed Miss Manette to be, for the moment, in some adjacent room, until, having got past the two tall candles, he saw standing to receive him by the table between them and the fire, a young lady of not more than seventeen, in a ridingcloak, and still holding her straw travellinghat by its ribbon in her hand.
dickens|Not even so.
austen|She went on  From the very beginningfrom the first moment, I may almost sayof my acquaintance with you, your manners, impressing me with the fullest belief of your arrogance, your conceit, and your selfish disdain of the feelings of others, were such as to form the groundwork of disapprobation on which succeeding events have built so immovable a dislike; and I had not known you a month before I felt that you were the last man in the world whom I could ever be prevailed on to marry.
dickens|My sister was uncommonly lively on the present occasion, and indeed was generally more gracious in the society of Mrs Hubble than in other company.
austen|What could your ladyship propose by it?
austen|A Miss Hawkinsthats all I know.
austen|Give me the book, I will write it down, and then there can be no possible reflection on you.
austen|You always called me, Mr Knightley; and, from habit, it has not so very formal a sound.
austen|it shews what a sad invalid I am!
austen|I would rather be talking to you, he replied; but as it seems a matter of justice, it shall be done.
dickens|Dear boy, I aint come so fur, not fur to be low.
austen|That it ought not to be attempted.
austen|Jane Fairfaxs perception seemed to accompany his; her comprehension was certainly more equal to the covert meaning, the superior intelligence, of those five letters so arranged.
austen|She should always send for Perry, if the child appeared in the slightest degree disordered, were it only for a moment.
austen|He had gone away deeply offendedhe came back engaged to anotherand to another as superior, of course, to the first, as under such circumstances what is gained always is to what is lost.
dickens|A sumptuous man was the FarmerGeneral.
dickens|Whom Defarge escorted to the top of the stairs, and, leaving seated there, returned.
dickens|I asked, in some hope of bringing him to a stand.
dickens|No other man in all this France could have done what he has done for me.
dickens|They again joined hands.
austen|I can hardly imagine that any thing which pleases or amuses you, should not please and amuse me too.
austen|I hope she will turn out well.
austen|Darcy had walked away to another part of the room.
austen|He must know that the Woodhouses had been settled for several generations at Hartfield, the younger branch of a very ancient familyand that the Eltons were nobody.
austen|Her reflections were in general satisfactory.
dickens|All I know of it; and indeed I only know so much, through piecing it out for myself; for my father always avoids it, and, even when Miss Havisham invited me to go there, told me no more of it than it was absolutely requisite I should understand.
dickens|Youre a foul shrew, Mother Gargery, growled the journeyman.
dickens|And then we contemplated one another afresh, and laughed again.
austen|And with these words he hastily left the room, and Elizabeth heard him the next moment open the front door and quit the house.
dickens|The Hall was a queer place, I thought, with higher pews in it than a church,and with people hanging over the pews looking on,and with mighty Justices one with a powdered head leaning back in chairs, with folded arms, or taking snuff, or going to sleep, or writing, or reading the newspapers,and with some shining black portraits on the walls, which my unartistic eye regarded as a composition of hardbake and stickingplaster.
dickens|After hailing the morn with this second salutation, he threw a boot at the woman as a third.
dickens|For a day or two, I lay on the sofa, or on the floor,anywhere, according as I happened to sink down,with a heavy head and aching limbs, and no purpose, and no power.
austen|Oh, brother, how kind you are!
dickens|Good!
austen|and thats so dreadful!
dickens|I went on with my explanation, and told her how I had hoped to complete the transaction out of my means, but how in this I was disappointed.
dickens|You think so?
dickens|I had scarcely had time to enjoy the coach and to think how like a strawyard it was, and yet how like a ragshop, and to wonder why the horses nosebags were kept inside, when I observed the coachman beginning to get down, as if we were going to stop presently.
austen|It was not the gipsiesit was not Mr Frank Churchill that I meant.
dickens|At one of the theatre doors, there was a little girl with a mother, looking for a way across the street through the mud.
dickens|By whom?
dickens|Is the house afire?
dickens|said the chief, at length taking up his keys, come with me, emigrant.
austen|she shall not do such a thing again, eagerly rejoined Mrs Elton.
austen|Mrs Bennet assured her that they never sat there after dinner, and then added  May I take the liberty of asking your ladyship whether you left Mr and Mrs Collins well.
dickens|It is likely enough that in the rough outhouses of some tillers of the heavy lands adjacent to Paris, there were sheltered from the weather that very day, rude carts, bespattered with rustic mire, snuffed about by pigs, and roosted in by poultry, which the Farmer, Death, had already set apart to be his tumbrils of the Revolution.
dickens|Drummle laughed outright, and sat laughing in our faces, with his hands in his pockets and his round shoulders raised; plainly signifying that it was quite true, and that he despised us as asses all.
dickens|Hark!
austen|for shame!
dickens|He looked at everybody coldly and sarcastically.
dickens|Thats how he looked when we were tried together.
austen|I saw she had execution, but I did not know she had any taste.
dickens|We saw the boat go alongside, and we saw him taken up the side and disappear.
dickens|Yes, repeated the stranger, looking round at the rest of the company with his right hand extended towards the witness, Wopsle.
dickens|If I had had any but a unnatral wife, and this poor boy had had any but a unnatral mother, I might have made some money last week instead of being counterprayed and countermined and religiously circumwented into the worst of luck.
dickens|Her father rose with her, and kept her hand drawn through his arm.
austen|Miss Woodhouse appeared more than once, and never without a something of pleasing connexion, either a compliment to her taste, or a remembrance of what she had said; and in the very last time of its meeting her eye, unadorned as it was by any such broad wreath of gallantry, she yet could discern the effect of her influence and acknowledge the greatest compliment perhaps of all conveyed.
austen|Miss Bingley, said he, has given me more credit than can be.
dickens|Partickler when he see the ghost.
dickens|exclaimed my sister, as if she didnt quite mean that but rather the contrary.
dickens|Mr Wopsle, Joe, and I, received strict charge to keep in the rear, and to speak no word after we reached the marshes.
dickens|croaked Jacques Three, as he read greedily.
dickens|The time will come, the time will not be long in coming, when new ties will be formed about youties that will bind you yet more tenderly and strongly to the home you so adornthe dearest ties that will ever grace and gladden you.
dickens|For, the rooms, though a beautiful scene to look at, and adorned with every device of decoration that the taste and skill of the time could achieve, were, in truth, not a sound business; considered with any reference to the scarecrows in the rags and nightcaps elsewhere and not so far off, either, but that the watching towers of Notre Dame, almost equidistant from the two extremes, could see them both, they would have been an exceedingly uncomfortable businessif that could have been anybodys business, at the house of Monseigneur.
dickens|When the repast was fully discussed, the lion put his hands in his waistband again, and lay down to meditate.
dickens|what else could be expected!
dickens|Lord bless the boy!
dickens|Yet, Monseigneur had slowly found that vulgar embarrassments crept into his affairs, both private and public; and he had, as to both classes of affairs, allied himself perforce with a FarmerGeneral.
austen|Oh!
austen|Do not you see that, at this instant, the very passage of her own letter, which sent me the report, is passing under her eyethat the whole blunder is spread before herthat she can attend to nothing else, though pretending to listen to the others?
austen|Just what she ought, of course.
dickens|Its an interesting trade.
dickens|Save the prisoner Evremonde at La Force!
dickens|Come in!
dickens|In those days, travellers were very shy of being confidential on a short notice, for anybody on the road might be a robber or in league with robbers.
dickens|That is what I mean to tell you, sir, said Mr Lorry.
dickens|Did he run away, fellow?
dickens|I was beginning to be rather vain of my knowledge, for I spent my birthday guineas on it, and set aside the greater part of my pocketmoney for similar investment; though I have no doubt, now, that the little I knew was extremely dear at the price.
dickens|I had forgotten that, Herbert, but I remember it now you speak of it.
dickens|I wish to have a private conference with you two, said he, when he had surveyed me at his leisure.
dickens|I have been informed by Wemmick, pursued Mr Jaggers, still looking hard at me, that he has received a letter, under date Portsmouth, from a colonist of the name of Purvis, or  Or Provis, I suggested.
dickens|You and your luck, Sydney!
dickens|I intend to try.
austen|Perhaps I am not doing her justice.
dickens|Now, you know me; you know I am incapable of all the higher and better flights of men.
austen|He seems to be a most conscientious and polite young man, upon my word, and I doubt not will prove a valuable acquaintance, especially if Lady Catherine should be so indulgent as to let him come to us again.
austen|So I said I would go down and see, and Jane said, Shall I go down instead?
dickens|If you can like me only half as well once more, if you can take me with all my faults and disappointments on my head, if you can receive me like a forgiven child and indeed I am as sorry, Biddy, and have as much need of a hushing voice and a soothing hand, I hope I am a little worthier of you that I was,not much, but a little.
dickens|It was the dark and dirty corner of a small winding street.
austen|Miss Bingley, I am sure, cannot.
dickens|Look at her, with her pretty pale face and her cold hands.
dickens|But, after you have gone home, dont go back here.
dickens|Will you hear me?
dickens|That was well done; they had left the spot; it shall not be in vain.
austen|But Mrs Elton was very much discomposed indeed.
dickens|The younger brother impatiently rejoined, With twelve oclock?
dickens|Ah!
austen|Walk home!
austen|He protested that, except Lady Catherine and her daughter, he had never seen a more elegant woman; for she had not only received him with the utmost civility, but even pointedly included him in her invitation for the next evening, although utterly unknown to her before.
dickens|I am sure not.
austen|He has imposed on me, but he has not injured me.
dickens|Upon my soul, I half believe he escaped in his terror, to get quit of me, not knowing it was me as had got ashore.
dickens|From Estella she looked at me, with a searching glance that seemed to pry into my heart and probe its wounds.
austen|Mr Knightley, what a delightful party last night; how extremely pleasant.
austen|She will never like me now.
austen|My father, however, is partial to Mr Wickham.
austen|Thus much for my general intention in favour of matrimony; it remains to be told why my views were directed towards Longbourn instead of my own neighbourhood, where I can assure you there are many amiable young women.
dickens|The bill paid, and the waiter remembered, and the ostler not forgotten, and the chambermaid taken into consideration,in a word, the whole house bribed into a state of contempt and animosity, and Estellas purse much lightened,we got into our postcoach and drove away.
dickens|whispered little Lucie, drawing close to her.
dickens|I dont mind admitting also that I am not engaged.
dickens|Provis, who had been asleep too, staggered up at the noise I made, and in an instant I saw his jackknife shining in his hand.
dickens|We are in a bankersparcel case just at present, and I have been down the road taking a squint at the scene of action, and thereupon must have a word or two with our client.
austen|He has many friends, and is at a time of life when friends and engagements are continually increasing.
austen|But you understand me.
austen|That such a consequence as this could ensue, you may easily believe, was far enough from my thoughts.
austen|Perry!
dickens|Resenting this little success more than anything, Drummle, without any threat or warning, pulled his hands out of his pockets, dropped his round shoulders, swore, took up a large glass, and would have flung it at his adversarys head, but for our entertainers dexterously seizing it at the instant when it was raised for that purpose.
austen|Mr Collins might never make the offer, and till he did, it was useless to quarrel about him.
dickens|Might I ask her age then?
austen|Wickham is not so undeserving, then, as we thought him, said her sister.
dickens|Truly, you did well, said the Marquis, felicitously sensible that such vermin were not to ruffle him, to see a thief accompanying my carriage, and not open that great mouth of yours.
dickens|But nothing could unsay the fact that he had returned, and was there in presence of the Judge and Jury.
dickens|And the man we have in hiding down the river, is Estellas Father.
dickens|Poor Carton!
dickens|You are an aristocrat, and must have an escortand must pay for it.
dickens|It had seemed to me, in the many anxious considerations I had given the point, almost indifferent what port we made for,Hamburg, Rotterdam, Antwerp,the place signified little, so that he was out of England.
austen|You should have gone to Cromer, my dear, if you went anywhere.
austen|As all conversation was thereby at an end, Elizabeth soon afterwards left the room.
austen|I am sorry Mr and Mrs Cole should have done it.
dickens|I call myself the Samson of the firewood guillotine.
austen|My Emma, he means no such thing.
austen|Oh!
dickens|Come, then, my children, said Barsad.
dickens|This dialogue had taken place at Mr Lorrys usual desk, with Monseigneur swarming within a yard or two of it, boastful of what he would do to avenge himself on the rascalpeople before long.
dickens|I do touch you, my dear boy.
dickens|The ground belongs to me.
dickens|I know he is, I returned.
dickens|So I would, Handel, only they are staring me out of countenance.
dickens|Let me introduce the topic, Handel, by mentioning that in London it is not the custom to put the knife in the mouth,for fear of accidents,and that while the fork is reserved for that use, it is not put further in than necessary.
dickens|He recoiled, but she laid her hand upon his arm.
dickens|Though he called me Mr Pip, and began rather to make up to me, he still could not get rid of a certain air of bullying suspicion; and even now he occasionally shut his eyes and threw his finger at me while he spoke, as much as to express that he knew all kinds of things to my disparagement, if he only chose to mention them.
dickens|What has roughened your temper?
austen|If, as I conclude will be the case, you send me full powers to act in your name throughout the whole of this business, I will immediately give directions to Haggerston for preparing a proper settlement.
dickens|You had abandoned all hope of being dug out?
dickens|At last she is dead?
austen|She will not be surprized, papa, at least.
austen|And such weather for exploring!
dickens|Dont ask, why, in these times.
austen|Weston Churchill.
austen|Handsome!
austen|You will not, I hope, consider me as showing any disrespect to your family, my dear madam, by thus withdrawing my pretensions to your daughters favour, without having paid yourself and Mr Bennet the compliment of requesting you to interpose your authority in my behalf.
dickens|What is it?
dickens|This convinced us that something great was to happen, and threw me into an unusual flutter when I repaired to my guardians office, a model of punctuality.
dickens|What did I say just now?
austen|This must be a fancy of her own.
dickens|Goodbye, Pip!
austen|How are they even to be discovered?
dickens|For Im a devil at a quick mistake, and when I make one it takes the form of Lead.
austen|No one but Jane, she thought, could flatter herself with such an expectation.
austen|Emma heard that Frank wrote in the highest spirits of this arrangement, and seemed most fully to appreciate the blessing of having two months before him of such near neighbourhood to many dear friendsfor the house was taken for May and June.
dickens|I dont know why anything should be otherwise than safe and well here, thank God; but I have been so put out all day, and I am not as young as I was!
austen|I am always glad to get a young person well placed out.
austen|Harriet had not been at home; but a note had been prepared and left for her, written in the very style to touch; a small mixture of reproach, with a great deal of kindness; and till Mr Elton himself appeared, she had been much occupied by it, continually pondering over what could be done in return, and wishing to do more than she dared to confess.
dickens|No, he aint.
austen|No, we should not have heard, if it had not been for this particular circumstance, of her being to come here so soon.
austen|I know Mr John Knightley too wellI am very sure he understands the value of friendship as well as any body.
dickens|I tried to decline taking the guinea on the first occasion, but with no better effect than causing her to ask me very angrily, if I expected more?
dickens|Why, if I was a fortuneteller  Looking out of the towel, he caught my eye.
austen|A private dance, without sitting down to supper, was pronounced an infamous fraud upon the rights of men and women; and Mrs Weston must not speak of it again.
dickens|So does a whole world, with all its greatnesses and littlenesses, lie in a twinkling star.
austen|It will then be publicly seen that, on both sides, we meet only as common and indifferent acquaintance.
dickens|The gates and dikes and banks came bursting at me through the mist, as if they cried as plainly as could be, A boy with somebody elses pork pie!
austen|He is desperately in love and means to marry her.
dickens|If it is?
dickens|They both knew too well what it meant.
austen|Have you seen any pleasant men?
dickens|Jane, you undutiful little thing, go and lie down.
austen|So you would all.
dickens|God bless you!
austen|said Emma in a whisper.
dickens|The man looked at him, looked at the village in the hollow, at the mill, and at the prison on the crag.
dickens|This is he; this helpless, inarticulately murmuring, wandering old man pointed out.
dickens|I dont suffer those who were here just now, or any one to speak of it.
dickens|They both had weak eyes, which I had long attributed to their chronically looking in at keyholes, and they were always at hand when not wanted; indeed that was their only reliable quality besides larceny.
dickens|Please God, I will be as true to you as you have been to me!
dickens|You are to pay all charges out of my purse, You hear the condition of your going?
dickens|As it passed, leaving Lucie frightened and bewildered in the doorway of the woodsawyers house, the feathery snow fell as quietly and lay as white and soft, as if it had never been.
dickens|He first laughed at my words, and then frowned at them.
dickens|Whitewash on the forehead hardens the brain into a state of obstinacy perhaps.
austen|He arranges the business just as he pleases.
austen|If it were merely a fine house richly furnished, said she, I should not care about it myself; but the grounds are delightful.
austen|aye, I know your scruples.
austen|Upon my word, I cannot exactly explain the matter; Darcy must speak for himself.
dickens|She was a good, compassionate lady, and not happy in her marriage.
dickens|So far, miss as you have remarked, this is the story of your regretted father.
dickens|I have gone off into that state, hours and hours, on account of Matthews strange and inexplicable conduct, and nobody has thanked me.
dickens|I say, Jerry!
dickens|I hazarded.
austen|Mr Darcy is not to be laughed at!
dickens|How did you bear your disappointment?
austen|Here Mr Weston joined them, and on hearing what was proposed, gave it his decided approbation.
austen|Haye Park might do, said she, if the Gouldings could quit itor the great house at Stoke, if the drawingroom were larger; but Ashworth is too far off!
dickens|bawled this figure, addressing the inn servants.
austen|You would not have encouraged me, then, if you had understood me?
austen|I cannot name a day, said he, till I have spoken to some others whom I would wish to meet you.
austen|Whom are you going to dance with?
austen|Somebody had placed her, several years back, at Mrs Goddards school, and somebody had lately raised her from the condition of scholar to that of parlourboarder.
dickens|The rest, eh, Pip?
austen|We must consider what Miss Fairfax quits, before we condemn her taste for what she goes to.
austen|But Lizzy, you have been very sly, very reserved with me.
dickens|All these things, and a thousand like them, came to pass in and close upon the dear old year one thousand seven hundred and seventyfive.
austen|On distinguishing the ladies of the group, the two gentlemen came directly towards them, and began the usual civilities.
dickens|He said yes, but asked me for some of my gentlemans linen to put on in the morning.
austen|They were rapidly forming words for each other, or for any body else who would be puzzled.
dickens|The three glided by, and went silently down.
austen|Well!
dickens|I own to you, I am shaken, Mr Lorry, by Doctor Manettes not having had the power to prevent this arrest.
austen|I feel as if I had never done you justice, or loved you as you deserve.
austen|He gave his consent with very little persuasion.
dickens|In my conscience, I doubt very much whether I had any lingering intention left of going to see Joe; but if I had, this observation put it to flight.
dickens|He said, Not at all, and resumed.
dickens|Shes coming out of the corner.
dickens|Or, if it had been no other, I should have been the cause, and then the dark part of my life would have cast its shadow beyond myself, and would have fallen on you.
austen|He promised to join me here, and pay his respects to you.
dickens|I say this, because what I must bid you to do for Charless sake, is the hardest thing to do of all.
austen|Not I, indeed.
dickens|There ought to have been some guardian, or suchlike, whiles you was a minor.
dickens|Now it appeared to him Pumblechook that if that capital were got into the business, through a sleeping partner, sir,which sleeping partner would have nothing to do but walk in, by self or deputy, whenever he pleased, and examine the books,and walk in twice a year and take his profits away in his pocket, to the tune of fifty per cent,it appeared to him that that might be an opening for a young gentleman of spirit combined with property, which would be worthy of his attention.
dickens|And I did.
austen|Her fathers business was to announce Jamess being gone out to put the horses to, preparatory to their now daily drive to Randalls; and she had, therefore, an immediate excuse for disappearing.
dickens|moaned Miss Havisham, pushing away her gray hair with both her hands.
dickens|Somehow, I was not best pleased with Joes being so mightily secure of me.
dickens|You know your way, sir?
austen|Miss Fairfaxs recent illness had offered a fair plea for Mrs Weston to invite her to an airing; she had drawn back and declined at first, but, on being pressed had yielded; and, in the course of their drive, Mrs Weston had, by gentle encouragement, overcome so much of her embarrassment, as to bring her to converse on the important subject.
austen|It was the prospect of constant society, and good society, he added, which was my chief inducement to enter the shire.
austen|For about three years I heard little of him; but on the decease of the incumbent of the living which had been designed for him, he applied to me again by letter for the presentation.
dickens|Nor I neither, said Biddy.
dickens|It stood before my disturbed sense of sight, but it never moved.
dickens|All partook of pudding.
dickens|he says.
austen|my dear, it is not like Hartfield.
dickens|she said, indignantly turning to Mr Lorry; couldnt you tell her what you had to tell her, without frightening her to death?
dickens|The Finches spent their money foolishly the Hotel we dined at was in Covent Garden, and the first Finch I saw when I had the honor of joining the Grove was Bentley Drummle, at that time floundering about town in a cab of his own, and doing a great deal of damage to the posts at the street corners.
dickens|When Barnwell began to go wrong, I declare that I felt positively apologetic, Pumblechooks indignant stare so taxed me with it.
dickens|Of all my worldly possessions I took no more than the few necessaries that filled the bag.
dickens|The deed was not then accomplished, neither did he confide in me.
austen|Mr Darcy handed the ladies into the carriage; and when it drove off, Elizabeth saw him walking slowly towards the house.
austen|It was after tea that Jane spoke to Mrs Elton.
austen|Yes, replied Darcy, who could contain himself no longer, but that was only when I first saw her, for it is many months since I have considered her as one of the handsomest women of my acquaintance.
dickens|Hed no more heart than a iron file, he was as cold as death, and he had the head of the Devil afore mentioned.
dickens|Still, the coincidence of our being together on the coach, was sufficiently strange to fill me with a dread that some other coincidence might at any moment connect me, in his hearing, with my name.
dickens|Who brought her father to life?
dickens|Through gloomy vaults where the light of day had never shone, past hideous doors of dark dens and cages, down cavernous flights of steps, and again up steep rugged ascents of stone and brick, more like dry waterfalls than staircases, Defarge, the turnkey, and Jacques Three, linked hand and arm, went with all the speed they could make.
austen|cried Elizabeth.
austen|Mr Churchill has pride; but his pride is nothing to his wifes his is a quiet, indolent, gentlemanlike sort of pride that would harm nobody, and only make himself a little helpless and tiresome; but her pride is arrogance and insolence!
dickens|How, then?
dickens|The appointed punishment for his return to the land that had cast him out, being Death, and his case being this aggravated case, he must prepare himself to Die.
austen|Lydia was a stout, wellgrown girl of fifteen, with a fine complexion and goodhumoured countenance; a favourite with her mother, whose affection had brought her into public at an early age.
austen|But Jane could think with certainty on only one pointthat Mr Bingley, if he had been imposed on, would have much to suffer when the affair became public.
austen|Now he has got my letter, said she softly.
dickens|What is to be done with you?
austen|He was coming to us, in order to assure us of his concern, before he had any idea of their not being gone to Scotland when that apprehension first got abroad, it hastened his journey.
dickens|Even with those aids, I might not have come to myself as soon as I did, but that I saw Estella approaching with the keys, to let me out.
austen|Not yet, however, in spite of her disappointment in her husband, did Mrs Bennet give up the point.
austen|Yes, papa; we have something to read you, something quite fresh.
austen|I not aware!
dickens|calling me back, and speaking low.
dickens|To help his memory I mentioned my name.
austen|I should be surprized if, after seeing them, you could be in company with Mr Martin again without perceiving him to be a very inferior creatureand rather wondering at yourself for having ever thought him at all agreeable before.
austen|No one who has ever seen you together can doubt his affection.
austen|And do you see her, sir, tolerably often?
dickens|Mr Jaggers had risen when Joe demonstrated, and had backed near the door.
dickens|Twice five; will that do?
austen|Sir, you have been entirely mistaken in supposing it.
dickens|Early in the morning, while my breakfast was getting ready, I strolled round by Satis House.
austen|You do nothing.
dickens|My first act was to put out my hand to relieve her breathing; and in moving the scarf aside, the embroidery in the corner caught my sight.
austen|There is my fatheranother of my fatherbut the idea of sitting for his picture made him so nervous, that I could only take him by stealth; neither of them very like therefore.
dickens|added Joe, with a shake of the head that was full of meaning, and begun at A too, and worked his way to Z.
austen|I am so glad.
austen|When they get to our age, I dare say they will not think about officers any more than we do.
austen|It was no more than a wish.
austen|Mary, said she, I wish you had gone with us, for we had such fun!
austen|I found, said he, as the time drew near that I had better not meet Mr Darcy; that to be in the same room, the same party with him for so many hours together, might be more than I could bear, and that scenes might arise unpleasant to more than myself.
dickens|he asked me, with his head on one side, and not looking at me, but looking in a listening way at the floor.
dickens|Surely a very poor one, Estella.
dickens|You never had a chance before you came here, and see how improved you are!
dickens|He is intent upon various new expenses,horses, and carriages, and lavish appearances of all kinds.
dickens|Mr Wopsle had been for going back, but Joe was resolved to see it out, so we went on with the party.
dickens|There is no patriot in Parisin Paris?
austen|Be assured, my dear sir, that Mrs Collins and myself sincerely sympathise with you and all your respectable family, in your present distress, which must be of the bitterest kind, because proceeding from a cause which no time can remove.
dickens|And shall I hang back, when Tellsons knows this and says thisTellsons, whose bread I have eaten these sixty yearsbecause I am a little stiff about the joints?
dickens|As it came nearer, I saw it to be Magwitch, swimming, but not swimming freely.
austen|The gentlemen came; and she thought he looked as if he would have answered her hopes; but, alas!
dickens|And again, God bless you.
dickens|It was a hard matter to preserve the innocent deceit of which they were profoundly unsuspicious.
austen|Her aunt is a good creature, but, as a constant companion, must be very tiresome.
austen|There is so much of gratitude or vanity in almost every attachment, that it is not safe to leave any to itself.
austen|Scarcely a syllable was uttered that did not relate to the game, except when Mrs Jenkinson expressed her fears of Miss de Bourghs being too hot or too cold, or having too much or too little light.
dickens|He never came there heated with wine.
austen|Yes.
dickens|When I had got rid of him, which I thought it well to do without prolonging explanations, my mind was much troubled by these two circumstances taken together.
dickens|cried my sister, beginning to scream.
austen|I cannot be so sanguine as Mr Weston.
dickens|I am glad to have the chance of bidding you goodbye, Mr Wemmick, said the man, stretching out his hand between two bars.
austen|Even you, used as you are to great sums, would hardly believe that so much could be given to a young person like Jane.
austen|My mothers deafness is very trifling you seejust nothing at all.
dickens|Well?
austen|And as to my dear little boys, I must say, that if Aunt Emma has not time for them, I do not think they would fare much better with Uncle Knightley, who is absent from home about five hours where she is absent oneand who, when he is at home, is either reading to himself or settling his accounts.
dickens|Until you spoke to her the other day, and until I saw in you a lookingglass that showed me what I once felt myself, I did not know what I had done.
austen|His understanding and temper, though unlike her own, would have answered all her wishes.
dickens|Thats his secret.
austen|They lived beyond their income, but still it was nothing in comparison of Enscombe she did not cease to love her husband, but she wanted at once to be the wife of Captain Weston, and Miss Churchill of Enscombe.
dickens|I am a Briton, said Miss Pross, I am desperate.
austen|My good, kind brother!
austen|I am sure I was very much surprized when I first heard she was going to be married.
dickens|This touched Young Jerry on a tender place; who adjured his mother to perform her first duty, and, whatever else she did or neglected, above all things to lay especial stress on the discharge of that maternal function so affectingly and delicately indicated by his other parent.
dickens|Then, wot with undertakers, and wot with parish clerks, and wot with sextons, and wot with private watchmen all awaricious and all in it, a man wouldnt get much by it, even if it wos so.
dickens|What with rum and pepper,and pepper and rum,I should think his pegging must be nearly over.
dickens|A compliment, said the Marquis, to the grandeur of the family, merited by the manner in which the family has sustained its grandeur.
austen|It was too old a story.
dickens|After all, I remained up there, repeatedly unlocking and unstrapping my small portmanteau and locking and strapping it up again, until Biddy called to me that I was late.
austen|Miss de Bourgh was pale and sickly; her features, though not plain, were insignificant; and she spoke very little, except in a low voice, to Mrs Jenkinson, in whose appearance there was nothing remarkable, and who was entirely engaged in listening to what she said, and placing a screen in the proper direction before her eyes.
austen|But when this subject was succeeded by his account of Mr Wickhamwhen she read with somewhat clearer attention a relation of events which, if true, must overthrow every cherished opinion of his worth, and which bore so alarming an affinity to his own history of himselfher feelings were yet more acutely painful and more difficult of definition.
dickens|For now, my repugnance to him had all melted away; and in the hunted, wounded, shackled creature who held my hand in his, I only saw a man who had meant to be my benefactor, and who had felt affectionately, gratefully, and generously, towards me with great constancy through a series of years.
dickens|said my convict, wiping blood from his face with his ragged sleeves, and shaking torn hair from his fingers I took him!
austen|They lagged behind, while Elizabeth, Kitty, and Darcy were to entertain each other.
dickens|All this time still with both hands taking great care of the birdsnest, Joe was rolling his eyes round and round the room, and round and round the flowered pattern of my dressinggown.
austen|Had I but explained some part of it onlysome part of what I learnt, to my own family!
dickens|Thenceforth, to secure his good will, she always spoke to him first, and often gave him drinkmoney, which he readily received.
dickens|Ha!
dickens|said the uncle.
dickens|He put it back again, stuck his pipe in a buttonhole of his coat, spread a hand on each knee, and after turning an angry eye on the fire for a few silent moments, looked round at us and said what follows.
dickens|They only come from the heart, Jerry.
dickens|Well, well, said the old clerk; we all have our various ways of gaining a livelihood.
dickens|Well, said Wemmick, hell give you wine, and good wine.
austen|I give you encouragement!
dickens|Lucie, the wife of Evremonde; is it not?
austen|I am afraid you will not be able to make it out, but I hardly know what I have written.
dickens|Brought her here.
dickens|As I drew nearer, I saw it to be the figure of a woman.
austen|Oh yes, Friday or Saturday next.
dickens|A dream, all a dream, that ends in nothing, and leaves the sleeper where he lay down, but I wish you to know that you inspired it.
austen|Jane, you have never seen Mr Elton!
dickens|Gargery.
austen|But, my dear sir, cried Mr Weston, if Emma comes away early, it will be breaking up the party.
dickens|Consider how natural and how plain it is, my dear, that it should be so.
dickens|Before long, the consideration that there was no disgrace in the fate he must meet, and that numbers went the same road wrongfully, and trod it firmly every day, sprang up to stimulate him.
austen|Well, then, you need not be under any alarm.
austen|How much I shall have to tell!
dickens|It was very likely that the men belonged to the Custom House, he said quietly, and that they had no thought of us.
austen|I know what your drawings are.
austen|Emma called on her the next day, and found her doom already signed with regard to Randalls.
dickens|Nothing that we do, is done in vain.
dickens|He has paid all, Monseigneur.
austen|This was a pleasure which perhaps the whole days visit might not afford, which certainly did not belong to the present halfhour; but the very sight of Mrs Weston, her smile, her touch, her voice was grateful to Emma, and she determined to think as little as possible of Mr Eltons oddities, or of any thing else unpleasant, and enjoy all that was enjoyable to the utmost.
dickens|He had replaced his neckerchief loosely, and had stood, keenly observant of me, biting a long end of it.
dickens|Why, yes, Sir, said Joe, me and Wopsle went off straight to look at the Blacking Wareus.
austen|Her brother, whose eye she feared to meet, scarcely recollected her interest in the affair, and the very circumstance which had been designed to turn his thoughts from Elizabeth seemed to have fixed them on her more and more cheerfully.
dickens|Like the clock in Miss Havishams room, and like Miss Havishams watch, it had stopped at twenty minutes to nine.
austen|And at last, as if resolved to qualify his opinion completely for travelling round to its object, he wound it all up with astonishment at the youth and beauty of her person.
dickens|Clara returned soon afterwards, and Herbert accompanied me upstairs to see our charge.
dickens|It is true, said Defarge, who was kneeling to look on and hear.
austen|you would not earn a very good livelihood as a working silversmith at this rate.
dickens|How do you do?
dickens|He went out before I went off.
austen|They had been speaking of it as they walked about Highbury the day before, and Frank Churchill had most earnestly lamented her absence.
austen|and resolved, that his mourning should be as handsome as possible; and his wife sat sighing and moralising over her broad hems with a commiseration and good sense, true and steady.
dickens|There they remained, a nightmare to me, many and many a night and day.
austen|They were a family of the name of Martin, whom Emma well knew by character, as renting a large farm of Mr Knightley, and residing in the parish of Donwellvery creditably, she believedshe knew Mr Knightley thought highly of thembut they must be coarse and unpolished, and very unfit to be the intimates of a girl who wanted only a little more knowledge and elegance to be quite perfect.
austen|I wonder who first discovered the efficacy of poetry in driving away love!
dickens|I recalled, too, that the oneeyed gentleman had shuffled forth against the wall when I was the innocent cause of his being turned out.
austen|Much more rational, my dear Caroline, I dare say, but it would not be near so much like a ball.
dickens|Yes.
dickens|Herbert lay asleep in his bed, and our old fellowstudent lay asleep on the sofa.
austen|If she does not object to it, why should we?
austen|with some elevation I was thinking of a much more precious circumstanceof Mr Knightleys coming and asking me to dance, when Mr Elton would not stand up with me; and when there was no other partner in the room.
austen|You will not think of quitting it in a hurry, I hope, though you have but a short lease.
dickens|I hope not!
austen|not since last Easter, and then only for a few days.
dickens|Well, Mr Pip, I think the sooner you leave hereas you are to be a gentlemanthe better.
dickens|We traversed but one side of the square, however, and at the end of it she stopped, and put her candle down and opened a door.
austen|Regard for my sisters credit and feelings prevented any public exposure; but I wrote to Mr Wickham, who left the place immediately, and Mrs Younge was of course removed from her charge.
dickens|Nor did the countinghouse where Herbert assisted, show in my eyes as at all a good Observatory; being a back second floor up a yard, of a grimy presence in all particulars, and with a look into another back second floor, rather than a look out.
austen|I cannot be otherwise than concerned at being the means of injuring your amiable daughters, and beg leave to apologise for it, as well as to assure you of my readiness to make them every possible amendsbut of this hereafter.
austen|Something of a very unpleasant nature, I find, has occurred;do let me know directly what it is.
dickens|He already asks himself, Has he sacrificed me?
dickens|We then separated for a few hours I, to get at once such passports as were necessary; Herbert, to see Startop at his lodgings.
austen|Long before it had taken place my opinion of you was decided.
dickens|I had not been mistaken in my fancy that there was a simple dignity in him.
austen|But he had gone to a wrong place.
dickens|But after this I ask you nothing.
austen|His being so sure of succeeding was wrong, said she, and certainly ought not to have appeared; but consider how much it must increase his disappointment!
dickens|Bring him to the lamp!
dickens|She was a cousin,an indigestive single woman, who called her rigidity religion, and her liver love.
dickens|Is it honouring your husband to dishonour his business?
dickens|One can depart, citizen?
austen|Do you mean with regard to this letter?
austen|I have no doubt of his having, at times, considerable influence; but it may be perfectly impossible for him to know beforehand when it will be.
austen|I saw them the night before last.
dickens|I am going out for a ride in the saddle.
dickens|If there was anything deeper, added Wemmick, bringing his pen to paper, hed be it.
dickens|It was a noble dish of fish that the housekeeper had put on table, and we had a joint of equally choice mutton afterwards, and then an equally choice bird.
austen|Did you speak from your own observation, said she, when you told him that my sister loved him, or merely from my information last spring?
dickens|When I saw him turning, I set my face towards home, and made the best use of my legs.
austen|His reception, however, was of the most flattering kind.
austen|Do not wish me such an evil.
austen|No, said Darcy, I have made no such pretension.
dickens|His lonely daughter, bereft of her final hope and reliance, appealed to them both too strongly.
austen|And, by what I understand, you might have had lodgings there quite away from the seaa quarter of a mile offvery comfortable.
austen|One of my senseless tricks!
dickens|I leaned down, and her calm face was like a statues.
austen|Then I know nothing of Mr Elton.
austen|Ever since I have known it, I have been most anxious to acknowledge to you how gratefully I feel it.
dickens|Which he was, as a Finch.
austen|Very.
austen|And you saw him frequently?
dickens|But for the latter inconvenience, the carriage probably would not have stopped; carriages were often known to drive on, and leave their wounded behind, and why not?
austen|Bad.
dickens|Carton, still drinking the punch, rejoined, Why should I be astonished?
dickens|And dont blame me, growled the convict I had recognized.
dickens|Good Miss Pross!
dickens|As to leading me into what you call this fatal step, Miss Havisham would have had me wait, and not marry yet; but I am tired of the life I have led, which has very few charms for me, and I am willing enough to change it.
austen|and the air so bad!
austen|I have been a selfish being all my life, in practice, though not in principle.
dickens|One of the frenzied aspirations of the populace was, for imitations of the questionable public virtues of antiquity, and for sacrifices and selfimmolations on the peoples altar.
dickens|To show you how mistaken you are, and what an unfounded assumption yours is, I will lay before you a certificate of Clys burial, which I happened to have carried in my pocketbook, with a hurried hand he produced and opened it, ever since.
austen|It was a comfort to Elizabeth to consider that Jane could not have been wearied by long expectations.
dickens|As you was!
dickens|To which I replied, after a long interval of reflection, I dont know.
austen|Mr Collins, meanwhile, was meditating in solitude on what had passed.
dickens|Bring that rascal!
dickens|It sheared off heads so many, that it, and the ground it most polluted, were a rotten red.
austen|I am not like Jane; I wish I were.
dickens|The change, though it was made without noise, drew back the film from the placid look at the white ceiling, and he looked most affectionately at me.
austen|you need not be afraid of owning it to me, for Mr Weston has told me himself.
dickens|Joe and I going to church, therefore, must have been a moving spectacle for compassionate minds.
dickens|But she had wrote out a little coddleshell in her own hand a day or two afore the accident, leaving a cool four thousand to Mr Matthew Pocket.
austen|What do you say to it?
dickens|Could it have lived an hour as happily?
dickens|When Mr Wopsle had imparted to me all that he could recall or I extract, and when I had treated him to a little appropriate refreshment, after the fatigues of the evening, we parted.
austen|Then she is no rule for Mrs Churchill, who is as thorough a fine lady as any body ever beheld.
dickens|said he, facing round, after doggedly preceding me a few steps towards the house.
dickens|And why not?
austen|She had not even a share in his opening compliments.
dickens|I laughed in spite of myself all the time, the whole thing was so droll; and yet I had a latent impression that there was something decidedly fine in Mr Wopsles elocution,not for old associations sake, I am afraid, but because it was very slow, very dreary, very uphill and downhill, and very unlike any way in which any man in any natural circumstances of life or death ever expressed himself about anything.
austen|For, though elated by his rank, it did not render him supercilious; on the contrary, he was all attention to everybody.
austen|A Miss Hawkins!
austen|Aye, that will be much best, said Harriet, quite satisfied, I should not at all like to have it sent to Mrs Goddards.
dickens|There is already lodged in my hands a sum of money amply sufficient for your suitable education and maintenance.
dickens|Come!
austen|They were permitted to go alone; and with a cordial nod from one, and a graceful bow from the other, the two gentlemen took leave.
austen|Both sir!
austen|I think her all you describe.
austen|she will tell me every thing.
austen|Oh!
austen|dear, yes, before the gentleman joined them.
austen|All young ladies accomplished!
austen|He never wished to attach me.
austen|If it was not for the entail, I should not mind it.
austen|She had been a friend and companion such as few possessed intelligent, wellinformed, useful, gentle, knowing all the ways of the family, interested in all its concerns, and peculiarly interested in herself, in every pleasure, every scheme of hersone to whom she could speak every thought as it arose, and who had such an affection for her as could never find fault.
dickens|Ill see what I hold,Mr Lorry, you know what a brute I am; I wish youd give me a little brandy.
dickens|He unshaded his face after a little while, and spoke steadily.
dickens|But when I think of my husband, and the mercies of these people  We will set him above their mercies very soon.
dickens|I presented him with a halfshare in my boat, which was the occasion of his often coming down to Hammersmith; and my possession of a halfshare in his chambers often took me up to London.
austen|Oh!
dickens|And when it come to character, warnt it Compeyson as had been to the school, and warnt it his schoolfellows as was in this position and in that, and warnt it him as had been knowd by witnesses in such clubs and societies, and nowt to his disadvantage?
austen|Well, well, never mind.
austen|I do not know what would become of my crayons and my instrument, if I had half so many applicants.
austen|You might not give Emma such a complete education as your powers would seem to promise; but you were receiving a very good education from her, on the very material matrimonial point of submitting your own will, and doing as you were bid; and if Weston had asked me to recommend him a wife, I should certainly have named Miss Taylor.
dickens|Quite as faithfully.
dickens|She knew nothing of you.
austen|She would rather busy herself about any thing than speak.
austen|A large party secures its own amusement.
dickens|We shall meet again, where the weary are at rest!
dickens|with the feeble malice of a tired man; but, as he had no theory, and no coat on, he was unanimously set at naught,not to mention his smoking hard behind, as he stood with his back to the kitchen fire to draw the damp out which was not calculated to inspire confidence.
dickens|There we stood, well squared up before it, shoulder to shoulder and foot to foot, with our hands behind us, not budging an inch.
austen|There is no knowing how estates will go when once they come to be entailed.
austen|You knew I should not stir till my lord and master appeared.
austen|You give me fresh life and vigour.
dickens|She brought her other hand from behind her, and held the two out side by side.
dickens|Yes, he had.
dickens|He expressed great gentleness and kindness for my fathers state, and I am sure he felt it.
dickens|But, few cared enough for that to think of it a second time, and, in this matter, as in all others, the common wretches were left to get out of their difficulties as they could.
dickens|They dont mind what they ask of me, the subordinate; but youll never catch em asking any questions of my principal.
austen|She thought nothing of his attachment, and was insulted by his hopes.
dickens|I saw him go.
dickens|I am sorry because I believe there is contamination in such a scoundrel.
dickens|The staunch old gentleman was still in his trust; had never left it.
dickens|said she to Joe.
dickens|No.
dickens|Wemmick was out, and though he had been at his desk he could have done nothing for me.
dickens|This way for the runaway convicts!
dickens|No human intelligence could have read the mysteries of his mind, in the scared blank wonder of his face.
austen|Could it really be meant for me?
dickens|There was another silence.
austen|Being pretty well aware of what sort of joy you must both be feeling, I have been in no hurry with my congratulations; but I hope it all went off tolerably well.
austen|shocking!
austen|It was by no means her object to have it believed that her sister was not a fine lady; perhaps there was want of spirit in the pretence of it;and she was considering in what way she had best retract, when Mr Weston went on.
austen|Miss Bates was very chatty and goodhumoured, as she always is, though she speaks rather too quick.
austen|What is this?
dickens|Are you not?
austen|There is no hurry at all.
austen|For his own sake, I would not have him do so mad a thing.
austen|But who was your mother?
dickens|Joe, said I; dont you think I ought to make Miss Havisham a visit?
dickens|When she was again in his arms, he said to her  And now speak to your father, dearest.
dickens|No; I am going to play backgammon with you, if you like, said the Doctor.
austen|One hears sometimes of a child being the picture of health; now, Emma always gives me the idea of being the complete picture of grownup health.
dickens|Softly, said Herbert.
dickens|The door is locked then, my friend?
austen|He is very young to settle, was Mr Woodhouses observation.
dickens|When?
austen|My dear Jane, what is this I hear?
dickens|Of his pleasures, general and particular, Monseigneur had the other truly noble idea, that the world was made for them.
austen|Emma was sadly fearful that this second disappointment would be more severe than the first.
austen|I am sure she will be an excellent servant; and it will be a great comfort to poor Miss Taylor to have somebody about her that she is used to see.
dickens|I had kept the matter a profound secret, even from my wife; and this, too, I resolved to state in my letter.
dickens|Lift him, and come away!
austen|She had always spoken to him as she would to any other gentleman; she made not the smallest objection to his joining in the society of the neighbourhood nor to his leaving the parish occasionally for a week or two, to visit his relations.
dickens|He would find it was weak, he would say it was weak, and I was lost!
austen|Then, perceiving in Elizabeth no inclination of replying, she added, Unhappy as the event must be for Lydia, we may draw from it this useful lesson that loss of virtue in a female is irretrievable; that one false step involves her in endless ruin; that her reputation is no less brittle than it is beautiful; and that she cannot be too much guarded in her behaviour towards the undeserving of the other sex.
dickens|The brewery buildings had a little lane of communication with it, and the wooden gates of that lane stood open, and all the brewery beyond stood open, away to the high enclosing wall; and all was empty and disused.
dickens|But, Mr Darnay, oblivion is not so easy to me, as you represent it to be to you.
dickens|No one remained now but the excitable Jew, who had already raised the skirts of Mr Jaggerss coat to his lips several times.
austen|Many counties, I believe, are called the garden of England, as well as Surry.
dickens|I hant seen a way to get you safe, and Ive looked arter you to know your ins and outs.
austen|I would not wish to be hasty in censuring anyone; but I always speak what I think.
dickens|He held the letter out inquiringly; and Monseigneur looked at it, in the person of this plotting and indignant refugee; and Monseigneur looked at it in the person of that plotting and indignant refugee; and This, That, and The Other, all had something disparaging to say, in French or in English, concerning the Marquis who was not to be found.
austen|Anxiety on Janes behalf was another prevailing concern; and Mr Darcys explanation, by restoring Bingley to all her former good opinion, heightened the sense of what Jane had lost.
dickens|The Recorders report is made today, and he is sure to be executed on Monday.
dickens|I have a heart to be stabbed in or shot in, I have no doubt, said Estella, and of course if it ceased to beat I should cease to be.
dickens|I had begun to be always decorating the chambers in some quite unnecessary and inappropriate way or other, and very expensive those wrestles with Barnard proved to be.
austen|I shall never be easy till I have seen some of these places.
austen|But I am quite in the minority, I believe; few people seem to value simplicity of dress,show and finery are every thing.
austen|Time did not compose her.
dickens|So entirely had it lost the life and resonance of the human voice, that it affected the senses like a once beautiful colour faded away into a poor weak stain.
austen|First, that you will allow me the free use of my understanding on the present occasion; and secondly, of my room.
dickens|Something that crossed me?
austen|you clever creature, thats very true.
austen|She is so fond of Mrs Forster, said she, it will be quite shocking to send her away!
austen|My dear sir, you are too obliging.
dickens|I do not recall that I felt any tenderness of conscience in reference to Mrs Joe, when the fear of being found out was lifted off me.
dickens|asked Miss Havisham.
dickens|With the rising and falling of the blaze, the stone faces showed as if they were in torment.
dickens|There was something so bright and remarkable in his look, that, for the first moment, the prisoner misdoubted him to be an apparition of his own imagining.
austen|We never had any governess.
austen|She was still looking at him with the most speaking amazement.
dickens|Is it possible!
dickens|Id catch hold of your throat and choke you for half a guinea.
dickens|Im rather partial to Carols, myself, and thats the best of reasons for my never hearing any.
austen|Thank you, my mother is remarkably well.
austen|I was convinced there were two, and there is but one.
dickens|Hereupon, Mr Pocket went out of the room, and we made the best of ourselves until he came back.
austen|I have seen a great many lists of her drawingup at various times of books that she meant to read regularly throughand very good lists they werevery well chosen, and very neatly arrangedsometimes alphabetically, and sometimes by some other rule.
dickens|And they fought for vealcutlets out of a silver basket.
dickens|Which Pa, having been in the Purser line of life, lies abed in a bowwindow where he can see the ships sail up and down the river.
austen|Certain it was that she was to come; and that Highbury, instead of welcoming that perfect novelty which had been so long promised itMr Frank Churchillmust put up for the present with Jane Fairfax, who could bring only the freshness of a two years absence.
dickens|I had no other object than to turn a slight thing, which, to my surprise, seems to trouble you too much, aside.
dickens|There was a longer pause than usual, before the shoemaker replied  I forget what it was you asked me.
dickens|Theyd say, returned my sister, curtly, pretty well.
dickens|He who had been presented in the worst light at his trial, who had since broken prison and had been tried again, who had returned from transportation under a life sentence, and who had occasioned the death of the man who was the cause of his arrest.
austen|Had you not been really amiable, you would have hated me for it; but in spite of the pains you took to disguise yourself, your feelings were always noble and just; and in your heart, you thoroughly despised the persons who so assiduously courted you.
austen|I am sincerely grieved for him and Mrs F.
dickens|Itcantbe, muttered Sydney Carton, retrospectively, and idling his glass which fortunately was a small one again.
austen|She is playing Robin Adair at this momenthis favourite.
austen|How can she find any appellation for them, deep enough in familiar vulgarity?
austen|should she let it pass, and seem to suspect nothing?
dickens|It must be done, as I may say, on the sly.
austen|The Picture, elegantly framed, came safely to hand soon after Mr Eltons return, and being hung over the mantelpiece of the common sittingroom, he got up to look at it, and sighed out his half sentences of admiration just as he ought; and as for Harriets feelings, they were visibly forming themselves into as strong and steady an attachment as her youth and sort of mind admitted.
austen|How to understand it all!
austen|Mrs Gardiner went away in all the perplexity about Elizabeth and her Derbyshire friend that had attended her from that part of the world.
dickens|This May I, meant might he shake hands?
dickens|On my objecting to this retreat, he took us into another room with a dinnertable for thirty, and in the grate a scorched leaf of a copybook under a bushel of coaldust.
austen|With all dear Emmas little faults, she is an excellent creature.
austen|They have both, said she, been deceived, I dare say, in some way or other, of which we can form no idea.
dickens|Heres a couple of pair of gloves!
dickens|Is that all?
dickens|A crazed young common dog!
dickens|She was a goldenhaired doll!
dickens|Why, no, thank you; this is a private visit to yourself, Mr Lorry; I have come for a private word.
dickens|Deuce take me, he added, suddenly, I know I did.
dickens|Herbert would often come to Hammersmith when I was there, and I think at those seasons his father would occasionally have some passing perception that the opening he was looking for, had not appeared yet.
dickens|Dreaming, perhaps, of banquets, as the starved usually do, and of ease and rest, as the driven slave and the yoked ox may, its lean inhabitants slept soundly, and were fed and freed.
dickens|The curse of those occasions is heavy upon me, for I always remember them.
dickens|Give it to your master, Pip.
austen|She was good enough for Mr Elton, no doubt; accomplished enough for Highburyhandsome enoughto look plain, probably, by Harriets side.
dickens|They left her at the corner of the street, and Carton led the way to Mr Lorrys, which was within a few minutes walk.
dickens|Everything had its appointed place and its appointed time.
dickens|A highly popular murder had been committed, and Mr Wopsle was imbrued in blood to the eyebrows.
austen|for I think you have a little cold, and Patty has been washing the kitchen.
dickens|From the character and turn of the inscription, Also Georgiana Wife of the Above, I drew a childish conclusion that my mother was freckled and sickly.
dickens|I am, said Herbert; but its a secret.
austen|impossible!
austen|There will be but one subject throughout the parishes of Donwell and Highbury; but one interestone object of curiosity; it will be all Mr Frank Churchill; we shall think and speak of nobody else.
dickens|But, they had no ears for anything in their surprise.
dickens|Blow the fire, blow the fireOld Clem!
dickens|O yes, said Wemmick, I have got hold of it, a bit at a time.
austen|That they should marry, small as is their chance of happiness, and wretched as is his character, we are forced to rejoice.
austen|I shall be happier to burn it, replied Harriet.
dickens|They found it surging and tossing, in quest of Defarge himself.
dickens|He lies!
austen|He would feel himself in the right; and the declarationmade, of course, as a man of sense would make it, in a proper mannerwould do him more good, raise him higher, fix his interest stronger with the people he depended on, than all that a line of shifts and expedients can ever do.
dickens|Very regular in everything, is my son.
dickens|cried a terrible voice, as a man started up from among the graves at the side of the church porch.
austen|As they walked across the hall towards the river, Elizabeth turned back to look again; her uncle and aunt stopped also, and while the former was conjecturing as to the date of the building, the owner of it himself suddenly came forward from the road, which led behind it to the stables.
dickens|says Compeyson.
dickens|I said so!
dickens|You may be sure, said Wemmick, touching me on the sleeve, that he never dwelt upon the strength of her hands then, though he sometimes does now.
austen|It was next to impossible that their cousin should come in a scarlet coat, and it was now some weeks since they had received pleasure from the society of a man in any other colour.
austen|She paused, and saw with no slight indignation that he was listening with an air which proved him wholly unmoved by any feeling of remorse.
dickens|You have laid me under an obligation to you for lifein two senses,  said his late client, taking his hand.
austen|That she should have walked three miles so early in the day, in such dirty weather, and by herself, was almost incredible to Mrs Hurst and Miss Bingley; and Elizabeth was convinced that they held her in contempt for it.
dickens|No!
dickens|This was received as rather neat in the sergeant; insomuch that Mr Pumblechook cried audibly, Good again!
dickens|A stretch of shore had been as yet between us and the steamers smoke, by reason of the bend and wind of the river; but now she was visible, coming head on.
dickens|That, the man sitting as President had then informed Doctor Manette that the prisoner must remain in custody, but should, for his sake, be held inviolate in safe custody.
austen|She had set out from Mrs Goddards half an hour agoshe had been afraid it would rainshe had been afraid it would pour down every momentbut she thought she might get to Hartfield firstshe had hurried on as fast as possible; but then, as she was passing by the house where a young woman was making up a gown for her, she thought she would just step in and see how it went on; and though she did not seem to stay half a moment there, soon after she came out it began to rain, and she did not know what to do; so she ran on directly, as fast as she could, and took shelter at Fords.
dickens|It is, Miss Pocket.
austen|It was most convenient to Emma not to make a direct reply to this assertion; she chose rather to take up her own line of the subject again.
austen|I think, Miss Woodhouse, you and I must establish a musical club, and have regular weekly meetings at your house, or ours.
dickens|As I was sleepy before we were far away from the prisonship, Joe took me on his back again and carried me home.
dickens|We all three went to it, behind the wire blind, and presently saw the client go by in an accidental manner, with a murderouslooking tall individual, in a short suit of white linen and a paper cap.
dickens|That discreet damsel was attired as usual, except that she was now engaged in substituting for her green kid gloves a pair of white.
austen|I was not in a humour to wait for any opening of yours.
dickens|There can be no harm in your going here tonight, and seeing for yourself that all is well with Tom, Jack, or Richard, before you go home,which is another reason for your not going home last night.
austen|He had not left her long, by no means long enough for her to have the slightest inclination for thinking of any body else, when a letter was brought her from Randallsa very thick letter;she guessed what it must contain, and deprecated the necessity of reading it.
dickens|The mad joy over the prisoners who were saved, had astounded him scarcely less than the mad ferocity against those who were cut to pieces.
dickens|You are to take me there, and bring me back, if you will.
austen|She was delighted with the fortitude of her little friendfor fortitude she knew it was in her to give up being in company and stay at home; and she could now invite the very person whom she really wanted to make the eighth, Jane Fairfax.
austen|His fathers dispositionhe is unjust, however, to his father.
austen|She is a great reader, and has no pleasure in anything else.
dickens|No, dear boy.
austen|How Mr Darcy looked, therefore, she could not tell.
dickens|I must see Lorry, the Doctor repeated, turning her another way.
dickens|This dialogue made us all uneasy, and me very uneasy.
dickens|Halloa!
dickens|You have an apprentice, pursued the stranger, commonly known as Pip?
dickens|Eager faces strained round pillars and corners, to get a sight of him; spectators in back rows stood up, not to miss a hair of him; people on the floor of the court, laid their hands on the shoulders of the people before them, to help themselves, at anybodys cost, to a view of himstood atiptoe, got upon ledges, stood upon next to nothing, to see every inch of him.
dickens|So am I, returned Joe, catching me up.
dickens|Swinging by the chain?
austen|This was all that was generally known of her history.
austen|He is now gone into the army, she added; but I am afraid he has turned out very wild.
dickens|Or both, said Darnay.
dickens|I thought he was rather a handsome fellow, and I thought I should have been much the same sort of fellow, if I had had any luck.
austen|Not that I am afraid of myself, but I dread other peoples remarks.
dickens|And Joe got in beside me, and we drove away together into the country, where the rich summer growth was already on the trees and on the grass, and sweet summer scents filled all the air.
austen|When the Campbells are returned, we shall meet them in London, and continue there, I trust, till we may carry her northward.
austen|It was very strange that he should come to Longbourn instead of to Lucas Lodge; it was also very inconvenient and exceedingly troublesome.
dickens|And a certain action of her fingers, as she spoke, arrested my attention.
austen|Emma saw his anxiety, and wishing to appease it, at least for the present, said, and with a sincerity which no one could question  She is a sort of elegant creature that one cannot keep ones eyes from.
dickens|Is it indeed?
austen|And as for Mrs Hodges, Wright holds her very cheap indeed.
austen|This has been a most agreeable piece of news indeed.
austen|How else could they come?
dickens|He was so deadly palewhich had not been the case when they went in togetherthat no vestige of colour was to be seen in his face.
austen|I never saw such a likeness.
austen|She could not repent.
dickens|A childish association revived with wonderful force in the moment of the slight action, and I fancied that I saw Miss Havisham hanging to the beam.
austen|Their arrival was dreaded by the elder Miss Bennets, and Jane more especially, who gave Lydia the feelings which would have attended herself, had she been the culprit, and was wretched in the thought of what her sister must endure.
dickens|That may be, in part, natural to it; in part, the result of affliction.
dickens|I asked Mr Wemmick.
austen|He began with great earnestness to entreat her to refrain from visiting the sickchamber again, for the presentto entreat her to promise him not to venture into such hazard till he had seen Mr Perry and learnt his opinion; and though she tried to laugh it off and bring the subject back into its proper course, there was no putting an end to his extreme solicitude about her.
dickens|Here!
dickens|What have I done!
austen|She had led her friend astray, and it would be a reproach to her for ever; but her judgment was as strong as her feelings, and as strong as it had ever been before, in reprobating any such alliance for him, as most unequal and degrading.
dickens|Believe it, love!
dickens|The officiating undertakers made some protest against these changes in the ceremonies; but, the river being alarmingly near, and several voices remarking on the efficacy of cold immersion in bringing refractory members of the profession to reason, the protest was faint and brief.
dickens|To this lodging he at once removed Lucie and her child, and Miss Pross giving them what comfort he could, and much more than he had himself.
dickens|Yes.
austen|He was dining with the Randalls family, and Jane, at the Eltons; and he had seen a look, more than a single look, at Miss Fairfax, which, from the admirer of Miss Woodhouse, seemed somewhat out of place.
dickens|Where I make the broken marks that follow here, I leave off for the time, and put my paper in its hidingplace.
austen|I dare say, returned Harriet, sighing again, I dare say she was very much attached to him.
austen|She must allow him to be still frequently coming to look; any thing less would certainly have been too little in a lover; and he was ready at the smallest intermission of the pencil, to jump up and see the progress, and be charmed.
dickens|I want no more words.
dickens|He considered the chambers and his own lodging as temporary residences, and advised me to look out at once for a fashionable crib near Hyde Park, in which he could have a shakedown.
austen|To Mr Darcy it was welcome intelligenceElizabeth had been at Netherfield long enough.
dickens|Mr Cruncher, with some diffidence, explained himself as meaning Old Nicks.
austen|Your humility, Mr Bingley, said Elizabeth, must disarm reproof.
austen|I have a high respect for your nerves.
dickens|I think I shall trade, said he, leaning back in his chair, to the East Indies, for silks, shawls, spices, dyes, drugs, and precious woods.
austen|From herself to Janefrom Jane to Bingley, her thoughts were in a line which soon brought to her recollection that Mr Darcys explanation there had appeared very insufficient, and she read it again.
dickens|The Bastille!
dickens|You are right, young man.
dickens|said Estella, opening her hands.
dickens|Now, this,  said Mr Trabb, taking down a roll of cloth, and tiding it out in a flowing manner over the counter, preparatory to getting his hand under it to show the gloss, is a very sweet article.
dickens|There, he laid her down on a couch, where her child and Miss Pross wept over her.
dickens|Practical suggestions being much needed, this suggestion, too, was received with acclamation, and the coach was immediately filled with eight inside and a dozen out, while as many people got on the roof of the hearse as could by any exercise of ingenuity stick upon it.
austen|She will be all delight and gratitude, but she will tell you nothing.
dickens|By the light of the torches, we saw the black Hulk lying out a little way from the mud of the shore, like a wicked Noahs ark.
austen|His eyes had been soon and repeatedly turned towards them with a look of curiosity; and that her ladyship, after a while, shared the feeling, was more openly acknowledged, for she did not scruple to call out  What is that you are saying, Fitzwilliam?
dickens|I have felt, and do even now feel, that to bring my loveeven minebetween you, is to touch your history with something not quite so good as itself.
austen|But I shall want the ribbon directlyso it had better go to Hartfieldat least the ribbon.
dickens|Because you are going to tell upstairs.
austen|Emma allowed her father to talkbut supplied her visitors in a much more satisfactory style, and on the present evening had particular pleasure in sending them away happy.
dickens|I was to go to Barnards Inn, to young Mr Pockets rooms, where a bed had been sent in for my accommodation; I was to remain with young Mr Pocket until Monday; on Monday I was to go with him to his fathers house on a visit, that I might try how I liked it.
austen|absolute madness!
dickens|He looked about him with the strangest air,an air of wondering pleasure, as if he had some part in the things he admired,and he pulled off a rough outer coat, and his hat.
dickens|My eyes were fixed on the ladder against the wall, when I came to myself,had opened on it before my mind saw it,and thus as I recovered consciousness, I knew that I was in the place where I had lost it.
dickens|As to finances public, because Monseigneur could not make anything at all of them, and must consequently let them out to somebody who could; as to finances private, because FarmerGenerals were rich, and Monseigneur, after generations of great luxury and expense, was growing poor.
dickens|La, la, la; La, la, la!
dickens|But you dont know it equal to me.
dickens|But she was acquitted.
dickens|I have seen him so terrify a client or a witness by ceremoniously unfolding this pockethandkerchief as if he were immediately going to blow his nose, and then pausing, as if he knew he should not have time to do it before such client or witness committed himself, that the selfcommittal has followed directly, quite as a matter of course.
austen|Harriet turned away; but Emma could receive him with the usual smile, and her quick eye soon discerned in his the consciousness of having made a pushof having thrown a die; and she imagined he was come to see how it might turn up.
dickens|The relief of being at last engaged in the execution of the purpose was so great to me that I felt it difficult to realize the condition in which I had been a few hours before.
austen|My mother does not hear; she is a little deaf you know.
dickens|But there was no staving off the question, What was to be done?
dickens|You had better try him in his own house.
austen|Mr Gardiner left them soon after breakfast.
austen|The wornout past was sunk in the freshness of what was coming; and in the rapidity of half a moments thought, she hoped Mr Elton would now be talked of no more.
austen|Tease calmness of manner and presence of mind!
dickens|Im a heavy grubber, dear boy, he said, as a polite kind of apology when he made an end of his meal, but I always was.
austen|Mrs Reynolds informed them that it had been taken in his fathers lifetime.
austen|Oh!
austen|Such expressions, assisted as they were by every thing that look and manner could do, made Emma feel that she had never loved Harriet so well, nor valued her affection so highly before.
dickens|I may read this?
dickens|It was the first time, except at the trial, of her ever hearing him refer to the period of his suffering.
dickens|Estella was the inspiration of it, and the heart of it, of course.
austen|Can you explain it?
dickens|Halloa, Mr Pip!
dickens|No, Joe.
austen|In this style she ran on; never thoroughly stopped by any thing till Mr Woodhouse came into the room; her vanity had then a change of object, and Emma heard her saying in the same halfwhisper to Jane,  Here comes this dear old beau of mine, I protest!
dickens|In those two compressions, or dints, the only little change that the face ever showed, resided.
dickens|The rats had crept out of their holes to look on, and they remained looking on for hours; soldiers and police often passing between them and the spectacle, and making a barrier behind which they slunk, and through which they peeped.
austen|Upon these occasions, a ladys character generally precedes her; and Highbury has long known that you are a superior performer.
austen|In as short a time as Mr Collinss long speeches would allow, everything was settled between them to the satisfaction of both; and as they entered the house he earnestly entreated her to name the day that was to make him the happiest of men; and though such a solicitation must be waived for the present, the lady felt no inclination to trifle with his happiness.
austen|There is hardly any desiring to refresh such a memory as that,said Mr Knightley, feelingly; and for a moment or two he had done.
austen|Yes, in conjunction with his friend.
austen|I wish it may.
austen|She had an unhappy state of health in general for the child of such a man, for she hardly knew what indisposition was; and if he did not invent illnesses for her, she could make no figure in a message.
austen|She would not be ashamed of the appearance of the penitence, so justly and truly hers.
austen|My sister, I am sure, will not hear of her removal.
austen|Such a charming man!
dickens|said he.
austen|I have never seen either Mr or Mrs Elton.
dickens|I am accustomed to it.
dickens|I left him, said Mike, a setting on some doorsteps round the corner.
dickens|As he was so communicative, I felt that reserve on my part would be a bad return unsuited to our years.
dickens|said the passenger, looking at the sun.
austen|But you had better go with Mrs Weston and hear the instrument.
dickens|I ask Wemmick to put it to himself very carefully.
dickens|Have em out, there!
dickens|And she had a long white veil dependent from her hair, and she had bridal flowers in her hair, but her hair was white.
dickens|Provide somebody to take care of you.
dickens|Thats well, friend Defarge.
austen|No, not Mr Knightley; he declined it from the first; and though I thought he would come, because Mrs Elton declared she would not let him off, he did not;but my mother, and Jane, and I, were all there, and a very agreeable evening we had.
dickens|He complied as to the chair, but appeared to find the speaking on less easy.
dickens|The place had a soothing influence on him.
dickens|Take you my knitting, said Madame Defarge, placing it in her lieutenants hands, and have it ready for me in my usual seat.
dickens|Not so like the witness said as that he could be mistaken.
austen|Nor was her respect for him, though it made her more quiet, at all likely to make her more elegant.
dickens|Its easier than bellowsing and hammering.
dickens|I said I didnt know how much.
austen|It is highly improper.
austen|He had before believed her to return his affection with sincere, if not with equal regard.
austen|I said it would be so, was the only consolation.
dickens|Then, the miserable bakers shops were beset by long files of them, patiently waiting to buy bad bread; and while they waited with stomachs faint and empty, they beguiled the time by embracing one another on the triumphs of the day, and achieving them again in gossip.
austen|That you do not give another halfsecond to the subject.
austen|Mr Knightley marry!
dickens|What is the matter?
austen|And, by the bye, every body ought to have two pair of spectacles; they should indeed.
dickens|Is it not true, said I, that Bentley Drummle is in town here, and pursuing you?
dickens|And as I felt that it came quicker, and as I felt that he saw that it came quicker, I felt that I had less chance than ever of getting anything out of him.
austen|The first time of my ever seeing him in Hertfordshire, you must know, was at a balland at this ball, what do you think he did?
dickens|Dont you know, Pip?
austen|Well, my dear, said Mr Bennet, when Elizabeth had read the note aloud, if your daughter should have a dangerous fit of illnessif she should die, it would be a comfort to know that it was all in pursuit of Mr Bingley, and under your orders.
austen|Her second duty now, inferior only to her fathers claims, was to promote Harriets comfort, and endeavour to prove her own affection in some better method than by matchmaking.
dickens|Then you have done all you have got to do.
dickens|I have no business to be, at all, that I know of, said Sydney Carton.
dickens|It had no effect upon the cries; no pendulum could be more regular.
austen|It would be such a delight to have her picture!
dickens|Id do that, if I was going to be strung up to that there gallows as there is over there, directly afterwards.
austen|Emma felt her foot pressed by Mrs Weston, and did not herself know what to think.
dickens|To exclude the cold, one half of this door was fast closed, and the other was opened but a very little way.
dickens|Let it be.
austen|If I have wounded your sisters feelings, it was unknowingly done and though the motives which governed me may to you very naturally appear insufficient, I have not yet learnt to condemn them.
dickens|Told would seem to imply verbal communication.
austen|One takes up a notion, and runs away with it.
austen|Oh!
dickens|For, they are headlong, mad, and dangerous; and in the years so long after the breaking of the cask at Defarges wineshop door, they are not easily purified when once stained red.
dickens|Nothing connected with Charles was concealed from me.
dickens|Now, Wemmick, said the latter then, resuming his usual manner, what item was it you were at when Mr Pip came in?
dickens|His resolution was made.
dickens|All right, John; all right, my boy!
dickens|Does it mean a captive, or a place of captivity?
dickens|And thats all I have got to say.
dickens|Theyre pretty well known to be out on the marshes still, and they wont try to get clear of em before dusk.
dickens|Mr Pumblechook made out, after carefully surveying the premises, that he had first got upon the roof of the forge, and had then got upon the roof of the house, and had then let himself down the kitchen chimney by a rope made of his bedding cut into strips; and as Mr Pumblechook was very positive and drove his own chaisecartover everybodyit was agreed that it must be so.
dickens|Again, well?
austen|Your examination of Mr Darcy is over, I presume, said Miss Bingley; and pray what is the result?
austen|Oh yes, sir, cried she with ready sympathy, how you must miss her!
dickens|The other convict was livid to look at, and, in addition to the old bruised left side of his face, seemed to be bruised and torn all over.
dickens|Maybe Im a growing a trifle old besides.
austen|Emma spoke with a very proper degree of pleasure; and fully assented to his proposition of Mr Frank Churchill and Miss Smith making their party quite complete.
austen|Elizabeths misery increased, at such unnecessary, such officious attention!
dickens|As the tide made, it flapped heavily at irregular intervals against the shore; and whenever such a sound came, one or other of us was sure to start, and look in that direction.
austen|Men of sense, whatever you may chuse to say, do not want silly wives.
austen|No, certainly not; I shall go home in the cool of the evening.
austen|But amidst your concern for the defects of your nearest relations, and your displeasure at this representation of them, let it give you consolation to consider that, to have conducted yourselves so as to avoid any share of the like censure, is praise no less generally bestowed on you and your elder sister, than it is honourable to the sense and disposition of both.
dickens|said I.
dickens|You scarcely seem to like your hand, said Sydney, with the greatest composure.
austen|Mr Collins listened to her with the determined air of following his own inclination, and, when she ceased speaking, replied thus  My dear Miss Elizabeth, I have the highest opinion in the world in your excellent judgement in all matters within the scope of your understanding; but permit me to say, that there must be a wide difference between the established forms of ceremony amongst the laity, and those which regulate the clergy; for, give me leave to observe that I consider the clerical office as equal in point of dignity with the highest rank in the kingdomprovided that a proper humility of behaviour is at the same time maintained.
dickens|This is very curious!
dickens|But they returned with a gentle tone upon them that softened even the edge of Tickler.
dickens|For once, the powerful pockethandkerchief failed.
dickens|Is not this as good a time as another for our knowing more?
austen|I am not romantic, you know; I never was.
dickens|Yes, and many others,all of them but you.
austen|I thought it my duty as a friend, and older than yourself, to say thus much to you.
austen|said Emma playfully.
dickens|Why, I am a boy, sir, to half a dozen old codgers here!
austen|But I must be more in want of a friend, or an agreeable companion, than I have yet been, to take the trouble of conquering any bodys reserve to procure one.
austen|Her aunt now called her to look at a picture.
austen|Could not have imagined it.
austen|They have no mercy on her.
austen|Then, my dear Isabella, it is the most extraordinary sort of thing in the world, for in general every thing does give you cold.
dickens|Can I restore him to you?
austen|She did unfeignedly and unequivocally regret the inferiority of her own playing and singing.
dickens|They would make such a business of it,such a coarse and common business,that I couldnt bear myself.
dickens|When she came to that, and to a wild cry that followed that, I caught her round the waist.
austen|Presently Mr Knightley looked back, and came and sat down by her.
austen|To provide for her otherwise was out of Colonel Campbells power; for though his income, by pay and appointments, was handsome, his fortune was moderate and must be all his daughters; but, by giving her an education, he hoped to be supplying the means of respectable subsistence hereafter.
dickens|When Monsieur the Marquis demands that evening, Say, what is he like?
dickens|the Spy entreats him, timidly.
austen|Yes, indeed.
dickens|from all throats.
dickens|What do you say, Tom?
dickens|Whether or no, the mender of roads ran, on the sultry morning, as if for his life, down the hill, kneehigh in dust, and never stopped till he got to the fountain.
austen|I wish we could contrive it, said she; but I cannot think of any tolerable pretence for going in;no servant that I want to inquire about of his housekeeperno message from my father.
dickens|Pip, said he, we wont talk about poor dreams; you know more about such things than I, having much fresher experience of that kind.
austen|As I tell Mr E.
austen|It was then disclosed in the following manner.
dickens|He left his two letters with a trusty porter, to be delivered half an hour before midnight, and no sooner; took horse for Dover; and began his journey.
austen|She must not make it a more decided subject of misery to him, by a melancholy tone herself.
dickens|Yes, said he, all of it.
austen|But, Lizzy, this must go no farther than yourself, or Jane at most.
dickens|If you were shown a great heap of dolls, and were set upon them to pluck them to pieces and despoil them for your own advantage, you would pick out the richest and gayest.
austen|Indeed, I am very sorry to be right in this instance.
austen|He walked off in more complete selfapprobation than he left for her.
austen|Come, said he, you are anxious for a compliment, so I will tell you that you have improved her.
austen|I flatter myself at least that you will be able to do so.
austen|I might as well inquire, replied she, why with so evident a desire of offending and insulting me, you chose to tell me that you liked me against your will, against your reason, and even against your character?
dickens|Under a threat?
dickens|Carton, with his right hand in his breast, stood close beside him.
dickens|What vapour is that?
dickens|Having abundance of time for his usual methodical toilette, Mr Lorry presented himself at the breakfasthour in his usual white linen, and with his usual neat leg.
austen|She was not of so ungovernable a temper as Lydia; and, removed from the influence of Lydias example, she became, by proper attention and management, less irritable, less ignorant, and less insipid.
dickens|It was now Young Jerrys turn to approach the gate which he did, holding his breath.
austen|Well done, Mrs Martin!
dickens|Oh, Solomon, dear Solomon!
dickens|Why, of course!
austen|Miniatures, halflengths, wholelengths, pencil, crayon, and watercolours had been all tried in turn.
austen|He will connect himself well if he can.
dickens|And I am, in plain reality.
dickens|He stopped in his looking at me, and slowly rubbed his right hand over his head.
dickens|O, I wouldnt, if I was you!
dickens|And, sir, if business imposes its restraints and its silences and impediments, Mr Darnay as a young gentleman of generosity knows how to make allowance for that circumstance.
dickens|Like him?
dickens|When it came upon him, he confronted it, but it must come before he troubled himself.
austen|Such a delightful evening as it would have been!
dickens|The rest of his time he passed in London.
austen|Harriet was to sit again the next day; and Mr Elton, just as he ought, entreated for the permission of attending and reading to them again.
dickens|There is some one down there, is there not?
austen|You need not be prompted to write with the appearance of sorrow for his disappointment.
dickens|I must say again that I heartily admire your gallantry and youthfulness.
austen|She knew but little of their meeting in Derbyshire, and therefore felt for the awkwardness which must attend her sister, in seeing him almost for the first time after receiving his explanatory letter.
austen|Pray do.
austen|I have a very sincere interest in Emma.
dickens|The little narrow, crooked town of Dover hid itself away from the beach, and ran its head into the chalk cliffs, like a marine ostrich.
austen|In vain did Elizabeth endeavour to check the rapidity of her mothers words, or persuade her to describe her felicity in a less audible whisper; for, to her inexpressible vexation, she could perceive that the chief of it was overheard by Mr Darcy, who sat opposite to them.
dickens|None.
austen|In his present behaviour to herself, moreover, she had a fresh source of displeasure, for the inclination he soon testified of renewing those intentions which had marked the early part of their acquaintance could only serve, after what had since passed, to provoke her.
dickens|He was not suspected or brought in question, any more than if he had indeed been recalled to life some eighteen years before, or were a Spirit moving among mortals.
austen|Warmth and tenderness of heart, with an affectionate, open manner, will beat all the clearness of head in the world, for attraction, I am sure it will.
austen|It is not to be conceived that a man of three or fourandtwenty should not have liberty of mind or limb to that amount.
dickens|He said it bitterly, and filled up his glass again which was a large one.
dickens|She had no idea what stock she had, or what the price of anything in it was; but there was a little greasy memorandumbook kept in a drawer, which served as a Catalogue of Prices, and by this oracle Biddy arranged all the shop transactions.
austen|How thankful am I that we never let them know what has been said against him; we must forget it ourselves.
austen|Indeed I have, sir, was her answer.
austen|Emma, in good spirits too, from the amusement afforded her mind by the expectation of Mr Frank Churchill, was willing to forget his late improprieties, and be as well satisfied with him as before, and on his making Harriet his very first subject, was ready to listen with most friendly smiles.
dickens|Exceedingly redeyed and grim, as if he had been up all night at a party which had taken anything but a convivial turn, Jerry Cruncher worried his breakfast rather than ate it, growling over it like any fourfooted inmate of a menagerie.
austen|Elizabeth excused herself as well as she could; said that she had liked him better when they had met in Kent than before, and that she had never seen him so pleasant as this morning.
austen|But in such cases as these, a good memory is unpardonable.
dickens|He was arranging his fruit in plates while we talked, which divided his attention, and was the cause of his having made this lapse of a word.
austen|Did you see it?
dickens|in a little wigLorryof the bank of Tellson and Companyover to England.
austen|What can be to be broke to me, that does not relate to one of that family?
austen|Mrs Collins, seeing that she was really unwell, did not press her to go and as much as possible prevented her husband from pressing her; but Mr Collins could not conceal his apprehension of Lady Catherines being rather displeased by her staying at home.
dickens|Papers!
austen|This is too bad, cried Emma, as they turned away.
austen|She hardly knew what to say.
dickens|That she thinks he has.
dickens|The carol of the birds was loud and high, and, on the weatherbeaten sill of the great window of the bedchamber of Monsieur the Marquis, one little bird sang its sweetest song with all its might.
dickens|Do you?
dickens|We shook hands,he was always a remarkably short shaker,and I thanked him.
austen|This is the estimation in which you hold me!
austen|to put me on my guard?
austen|To be sure.
austen|This preservative she had now obtained; and at the age of twentyseven, without having ever been handsome, she felt all the good luck of it.
austen|Ah!
dickens|Humph!
dickens|so I went out on the landing and roared that name as I had done on the previous occasion.
dickens|At that time, the steamtraffic on the Thames was far below its present extent, and watermens boats were far more numerous.
austen|Every disposition of the ground was good; and she looked on the whole scene, the river, the trees scattered on its banks and the winding of the valley, as far as she could trace it, with delight.
austen|Mr Gardiner declared his willingness, and Elizabeth was applied to for her approbation.
dickens|It carried me into great and unexpected peril; but it is a sacred object, and if it had carried me to death I hope it would have sustained me.
dickens|Yah!
austen|He had entertained hopes of being admitted to a sight of the young ladies, of whose beauty he had heard much; but he saw only the father.
dickens|Lost, utterly lost!
dickens|Yes, Ill go with you.
austen|Certainly, if you wish it;but you are not going to walk to Highbury alone?
dickens|This was not a very ceremonious way of rendering homage to a patron saint, but I believe Old Clem stood in that relation towards smiths.
dickens|It was as if a professed unbeliever in ghosts should be frightened by a ghost story.
dickens|During the whole interval, whenever I went to the bottom of the staircase, I heard her footstep, saw her light pass above, and heard her ceaseless low cry.
dickens|They both execrated the place in very strong language, and gradually growled themselves out, and had nothing left to say.
dickens|Do you mean to keep that name?
dickens|You are to wait here, you boy, said Estella; and disappeared and closed the door.
austen|He generously imputed the whole to his mistaken pride, and confessed that he had before thought it beneath him to lay his private actions open to the world.
austen|Upon my word, exclaimed Emma, you amuse me!
austen|I have known her from a child, undoubtedly; we have been children and women together; and it is natural to suppose that we should be intimate,that we should have taken to each other whenever she visited her friends.
austen|If I had but her memory!
dickens|When it was quite dark, I left the Aged preparing the fire for toast; and I inferred from the number of teacups, as well as from his glances at the two little doors in the wall, that Miss Skiffins was expected.
austen|I do not see much sign of it.
austen|The two ladies looked over it together; and he sat smiling and talking to them the whole time, in a voice a little subdued, but very audible to every body.
dickens|Which I meantersay, cried Joe, that if you come into my place bullbaiting and badgering me, come out!
austen|Elizabeth did not know what to make of it.
austen|They called at various times of the morning, sometimes separately, sometimes together, and now and then accompanied by their aunt.
austen|But she could never get acquainted with her she did not know how it was, but there was such coldness and reservesuch apparent indifference whether she pleased or notand then, her aunt was such an eternal talker!
dickens|Even when we were fellowstudents in the StudentQuarter of Paris, picking up French, and French law, and other French crumbs that we didnt get much good of, you were always somewhere, and I was always nowhere.
austen|Elizabeth did not quit her room for a moment; nor were the other ladies often absent; the gentlemen being out, they had, in fact, nothing to do elsewhere.
austen|Should I send it to Mrs Goddards, maam?
dickens|If she favors you, love her.
austen|She was too completely overpowered to be immediately able to reply and two moments of silence being ample encouragement for Mr Eltons sanguine state of mind, he tried to take her hand again, as he joyously exclaimed  Charming Miss Woodhouse!
austen|If it had not been for you, I should certainly have lost all the happiness of this party.
dickens|repeated his wife.
austen|Sometimes, indeed, I have thought you were half suspecting me of pleading poor Martins cause, which was never the case; but, from all my observations, I am convinced of her being an artless, amiable girl, with very good notions, very seriously good principles, and placing her happiness in the affections and utility of domestic life.
dickens|he returned, with something like a gruff laugh.
austen|Lady Catherine was reckoned proud by many people he knew, but he had never seen anything but affability in her.
dickens|Little Lucie she taught, as regularly, as if they had all been united in their English home.
austen|Why, at that rate, you will have been here only six weeks.
dickens|Now, understand that, finally.
austen|Mr Knightley to be no longer coming there for his evening comfort!
austen|But afterwards she seemed to improve on you, and I believe you thought her rather pretty at one time.
austen|There could be no doubt of his great pleasure in seeing her.
austen|If Emma had still, at intervals, an anxious feeling for Harriet, a momentary doubt of its being possible for her to be really cured of her attachment to Mr Knightley, and really able to accept another man from unbiased inclination, it was not long that she had to suffer from the recurrence of any such uncertainty.
austen|It is such a pretty charade, my dear, that I can easily guess what fairy brought it.
austen|I was so astonished when she first told me what she had been saying to Mrs Elton, and when Mrs Elton at the same moment came congratulating me upon it!
dickens|This other gentleman, observed Joe, by way of introducing Mr Wopsle, is a gentleman that you would like to hear give it out.
dickens|Then, the night, with the moon and the stars, turned pale and died, and for a little while it seemed as if Creation were delivered over to Deaths dominion.
dickens|He knows your character, Joseph, and is well acquainted with your pigheadedness and ignorance; and he knows my character, Joseph, and he knows my want of gratitoode.
austen|I was not disappointed; and at last I was not disappointed either in the object of my journey.
austen|I cannot give you credit for any philosophy of the kind.
austen|Did he not love Mr Knightley very much?
dickens|M.
dickens|What, said I to Herbert, when he was safe in another chair,what is to be done?
dickens|In his two cabin rooms at the top of the house, which were fresh and airy, and in which Mr Barley was less audible than below, I found Provis comfortably settled.
austen|I should myself have shrunk from any thing so hasty, and she would have felt every scruple of mine with multiplied strength and refinement.
dickens|cried Miss Pross, still wildly crying, record them at once, and get them out of the way, like an excellent man.
dickens|There are fiveandtwenty guineas in this bag.
dickens|It had never been a good eye to see withhad long had the mote in it of Lucifers pride, Sardanapaluss luxury, and a moles blindnessbut it had dropped out and was gone.
dickens|I never made them.
dickens|She sot down, said Joe, and she got up, and she made a grab at Tickler, and she Rampaged out.
austen|cried Miss Bingley.
austen|Neither could anything be urged against my father, who, though with some peculiarities, has abilities Mr Darcy himself need not disdain, and respectability which he will probably never reach.
austen|Mrs Elton took a great fancy to Jane Fairfax; and from the first.
dickens|Did you think of walking down to Walworth?
dickens|observed my sister; but rather gratified too.
dickens|They were discussing this question, and were almost building up some weak structure of hope on his prolonged absence, when they heard him on the stairs.
austen|Some might think him, and others might think her, the most in luck.
austen|My uncle and aunt and I were to go together; and the others were to meet us at the church.
austen|I always say there is something direful in the sound but nothing more is positively known of the Tupmans, though a good many things I assure you are suspected; and yet by their manners they evidently think themselves equal even to my brother, Mr Suckling, who happens to be one of their nearest neighbours.
austen|Yesit seems to depend upon nothing but the illhumour of Mrs Churchill, which I imagine to be the most certain thing in the world.
austen|All!
austen|Her aunt assured her that she was, and Elizabeth having thanked her for the kindness of her hints, they parted; a wonderful instance of advice being given on such a point, without being resented.
austen|I am not at all surprized at you, Harriet.
dickens|I might a took warning by Arthur, but I didnt; and I wont pretend I was particklerfor where ud be the good on it, dear boy and comrade?
austen|Have you heard from my uncle?
dickens|Let my body be where it would, my spirit was always wandering, wandering, wandering, about that house.
austen|Your father would depend on your resolution and good conduct, I am sure.
dickens|As their wine was measuring out, a man parted from another man in a corner, and rose to depart.
dickens|You are consigned, Evremonde, to the prison of La Force.
austen|It soon led to another; and Mrs Bennet found, with amazement and horror, that her husband would not advance a guinea to buy clothes for his daughter.
austen|, etc.
austen|Pray, pray attempt it.
dickens|I swore that time, sure as ever I earned a guinea, that guinea should go to you.
dickens|She was an orphan like myself; like me, too, had been brought up by hand.
dickens|Look over it.
dickens|O, not nearly so much.
dickens|Id hold you under the pump, and choke it out of you.
austen|However, when I read on, I found it was not near so bad as I had fancied at first; and I make so light of it now to her, that she does not think much about it.
dickens|And Clara?
austen|Mr Perry might have reason to regret the alteration, but nobody else could.
dickens|Lookee here, Pip, said he, laying his hand on my arm in a suddenly altered and subdued manner; first of all, lookee here.
dickens|I also heard that you at your chambers in Garden Court, Temple, had been watched, and might be watched again.
austen|She is loveliness itself.
dickens|I adapted them for my own repetition, and said to my pillow, I love her, I love her, I love her!
austen|Philip Elton, WhiteHart, Bath, was to be seen under the operation of being lifted into the butchers cart, which was to convey it to where the coaches past; and every thing in this world, excepting that trunk and the direction, was consequently a blank.
austen|Elizabeth took the letter from his writingtable, and they went up stairs together.
dickens|In England.
dickens|But dear Mrs Pocket, said Mrs Coiler, after her early disappointment not that dear Mr Pocket was to blame in that, requires so much luxury and elegance  Yes, maam, I said, to stop her, for I was afraid she was going to cry.
austen|Thats one of the ladies in the Irish car party, not at all like her.
austen|I hope Mrs Bates and Miss Fairfax are  Very well, I am much obliged to you.
austen|My love for Mr and Mrs Weston gives me a decided prejudice in his favour.
austen|We will not allow her to do such a thing againand nodding significantlythere must be some arrangement made, there must indeed.
dickens|But I can compare the effect of it, when on, to nothing but the probable effect of rouge upon the dead; so awful was the manner in which everything in him that it was most desirable to repress, started through that thin layer of pretence, and seemed to come blazing out at the crown of his head.
dickens|She stared, and said in a low voice, Is it real?
austen|To be in company, nicely dressed herself and seeing others nicely dressed, to sit and smile and look pretty, and say nothing, was enough for the happiness of the present hour.
austen|to congratulate myself on the hope of relations, whose condition in life is so decidedly beneath my own?
dickens|Curious to consider how heedless flies are!
dickens|Then, as in general you stick to your work as well as most men, said Joe, let it be a halfholiday for all.
dickens|First, said Mr Cruncher, who was all in a tremble, and who spoke with an ashy and solemn visage, them poor things well out o this, never no more will I do it, never no more!
dickens|After peeping into several wineshops, she stopped at the sign of the Good Republican Brutus of Antiquity, not far from the National Palace, once and twice the Tuileries, where the aspect of things rather took her fancy.
dickens|It was a run indeed now, and what Joe called, in the only two words he spoke all the time, a Winder.
dickens|Biddy, said I, with some severity, I have particular reasons for wanting to be a gentleman.
austen|This lesson, she very much feared, they would receive only from herself; she had little hope of Mr Knightley, none of Mr Weston.
dickens|Herbert Pocket had a frank and easy way with him that was very taking.
dickens|He gave the medical testimony, in pointed imitation of our local practitioner; and he piped and shook, as the aged turnpikekeeper who had heard blows, to an extent so very paralytic as to suggest a doubt regarding the mental competency of that witness.
austen|His manners, however, must have been unmarked, wavering, dubious, or she could not have been so misled.
dickens|What has brought you here?
austen|In spite of what her sister declared, and really believed to be her feelings in the expectation of his arrival, Elizabeth could easily perceive that her spirits were affected by it.
austen|Its completion depended on others.
austen|But, perhaps, his sister does as well for the present, and, as she is under his sole care, he may do what he likes with her.
dickens|I have unusual business to transact with you, and I commence by explaining that it is not of my originating.
dickens|How dreadfully unkind in a brother nothing has ever turned my love away from!
austen|He remained at Hartfield after all the rest, his thoughts full of what he had seen; so full, that when the candles came to assist his observations, he mustyes, he certainly must, as a friendan anxious friendgive Emma some hint, ask her some question.
austen|As I did the other day, said Elizabeth with a conscious smile very true, it will be wise in me to refrain from that.
austen|There are places in town, offices, where inquiry would soon produce somethingOffices for the salenot quite of human fleshbut of human intellect.
dickens|I looked at those hands, I looked at those eyes, I looked at that flowing hair; and I compared them with other hands, other eyes, other hair, that I knew of, and with what those might be after twenty years of a brutal husband and a stormy life.
dickens|Perhaps I was not, she answered, putting a hand to her head.
dickens|The strange gentleman, with an air of authority not to be disputed, and with a manner expressive of knowing something secret about every one of us that would effectually do for each individual if he chose to disclose it, left the back of the settle, and came into the space between the two settles, in front of the fire, where he remained standing, his left hand in his pocket, and he biting the forefinger of his right.
austen|Instances have been known of young people passing many, many months successively, without being at any ball of any description, and no material injury accrue either to body or mind;but when a beginning is madewhen the felicities of rapid motion have once been, though slightly, feltit must be a very heavy set that does not ask for more.
dickens|If, when I tell you, dearest dear, that your agony is over, and that I have come here to take you from it, and that we go to England to be at peace and at rest, I cause you to think of your useful life laid waste, and of our native France so wicked to you, weep for it, weep for it!
dickens|Which is Evremonde?
austen|Emma looked graciously.
austen|The whole party have left Netherfield by this time, and are on their way to townand without any intention of coming back again.
dickens|he cries out.
dickens|Hah!
austen|Her mother impatiently met her at the door of the dressingroom, to ask why Lady Catherine would not come in again and rest herself.
austen|A bad thing!
austen|I honour his sincerity.
austen|Mr Cole said how much taste you had; and Mr Frank Churchill talked a great deal about your taste, and that he valued taste much more than execution.
austen|It was impossible for her to see the word without thinking of Pemberley and its owner.
austen|Now I cannot say, that I think you are any of you looking well at present.
dickens|Carton, there is no escaping from this place; it never can be done.
dickens|It was characteristic of this lady as of some other people before her time and since that whenever her original proposition was questioned, she exaggerated it.
austen|At the same time, nobody could wonder if Mr Elton should have aspiredMiss Woodhouse lets me chatter on, so goodhumouredly.
dickens|Mr Lorry followed Sydney to the outer door, and, touching him on the shoulder as he was going away, caused him to turn.
dickens|But then, as Herbert changed the bandages, more by the light of the fire than by the outer light, he went back to it spontaneously.
dickens|Worn out by anxious watching, Mr Lorry fell asleep at his post.
dickens|From that there hut and that there hiringout, I got money left me by my master which died, and had been the same as me, and got my liberty and went for myself.
dickens|Early as it was, on the windy March morning, the room in which he lay abed was already scrubbed throughout; and between the cups and saucers arranged for breakfast, and the lumbering deal table, a very clean white cloth was spread.
dickens|Give me your hat.
austen|Aye, that may suit your humble ideas of yourself;I know what a modest creature you are; but it will not satisfy your friends to have you taking up with any thing that may offer, any inferior, commonplace situation, in a family not moving in a certain circle, or able to command the elegancies of life.
dickens|Cometo play.
dickens|Is it notforgive me; I have begun the question on my lipsa pity to live no better life?
austen|No.
dickens|Is it obeying your husband to disobey him on the wital subject of his business?
dickens|Well, Masr Jaggers, said Mike, wiping his nose on his fur cap this time; in a general way, anythink.
dickens|From London?
dickens|Is it his child?
dickens|As to this, his natural and not to be alienated inheritance, the messenger on horseback had exactly the same possessions as the King, the first Minister of State, or the richest merchant in London.
austen|I rather expected, from my knowledge of her affability, that it would happen.
dickens|Story!
dickens|He rested pretty quiet till it might want a few minutes of five, and then he starts up with a scream, and screams out, Here she is!
austen|I am sick of them all.
austen|His being such a charming young man, and so rich, and living but three miles from them, were the first points of selfgratulation; and then it was such a comfort to think how fond the two sisters were of Jane, and to be certain that they must desire the connection as much as she could do.
dickens|?
dickens|It was such a curious corner in its acoustical properties, such a peculiar Ear of a place, that as Mr Lorry stood at the open window, looking for the father and daughter whose steps he heard, he fancied they would never approach.
dickens|You see my state, said I.
dickens|Why not say so?
austen|You may be very sure that if I had, I should have cautioned you accordingly.
dickens|Thus, the rustling of an Angels wings got blended with the other echoes, and they were not wholly of earth, but had in them that breath of Heaven.
dickens|Yes, go on.
austen|That is very true, said Elizabeth; though it had not occurred to me before.
dickens|What was it that was borne in upon my mind when she stood still and looked attentively at me?
austen|I always told you she wasa little; but you will soon overcome all that part of her reserve which ought to be overcome, all that has its foundation in diffidence.
dickens|A few steps, please.
austen|Emma had as much reason to be satisfied with the rest of the party as with Mr Knightley.
dickens|Ay.
dickens|Biddys first triumph in her new office, was to solve a difficulty that had completely vanquished me.
dickens|Am I right in so understanding what you have told me, as that he never referred to her, directly or indirectly, in any way?
austen|Mrs Gardiner was standing a little behind; and on her pausing, he asked her if she would do him the honour of introducing him to her friends.
austen|I am losing all my bitterness against spoilt children, my dearest Emma.
dickens|And now I, sitting in the stern, could see, with a faster beating heart, Mill Pond Bank and Mill Pond stairs.
dickens|The prisoner sprang up with a reproachful look, but Cartons hand was close and firm at his nostrils, and Cartons left arm caught him round the waist.
austen|But, however, that shant prevent my asking him to dine here, I am determined.
austen|You are quite mistaken.
austen|She had not deserved it; she had often been negligent or perverse, slighting his advice, or even wilfully opposing him, insensible of half his merits, and quarrelling with him because he would not acknowledge her false and insolent estimate of her ownbut still, from family attachment and habit, and thorough excellence of mind, he had loved her, and watched over her from a girl, with an endeavour to improve her, and an anxiety for her doing right, which no other creature had at all shared.
dickens|His cold white head mingled with her radiant hair, which warmed and lighted it as though it were the light of Freedom shining on him.
austen|June will soon be here.
austen|No, nothing at all.
dickens|Yes.
dickens|The things that you see here, are things to be seen, and not spoken of.
dickens|As to what I dare, Im a old bird now, as has dared all manner of traps since first he was fledged, and Im not afeerd to perch upon a scarecrow.
austen|Remember that she is one of a large family; that as to fortune, it is a most eligible match; and be ready to believe, for everybodys sake, that she may feel something like regard and esteem for our cousin.
dickens|panted the sergeant, struggling at the bottom of a ditch.
austen|To persuade him against returning into Hertfordshire, when that conviction had been given, was scarcely the work of a moment.
austen|Such a very kind attentionand so thoughtful an attention!
austen|It is on your account that he has been so frequently invited this week.
austen|Men of family would not be very fond of connecting themselves with a girl of such obscurityand most prudent men would be afraid of the inconvenience and disgrace they might be involved in, when the mystery of her parentage came to be revealed.
austen|Methodical, or well arranged, or very well delivered, it could not be expected to be; but it contained, when separated from all the feebleness and tautology of the narration, a substance to sink her spiritespecially with the corroborating circumstances, which her own memory brought in favour of Mr Knightleys most improved opinion of Harriet.
austen|You know pretty well, I suppose, what has been done for the young people.
dickens|said he, in a whimpering miserable way; let me get to work.
austen|She not unfrequently stopped at the Parsonage, and had a few minutes conversation with Charlotte, but was scarcely ever prevailed upon to get out.
austen|To Highbury in general it brought no material change.
austen|But so they always are.
austen|He has encouragement enough to proceed, without our sighing out our souls over this charade.
dickens|The truth was, that she had objected to me as an expensive companion who did Herbert no good, and that, when Herbert had first proposed to present me to her, she had received the proposal with such very moderate warmth, that Herbert had felt himself obliged to confide the state of the case to me, with a view to the lapse of a little time before I made her acquaintance.
austen|When to these recollections was added the development of Wickhams character, it may be easily believed that the happy spirits which had seldom been depressed before, were now so much affected as to make it almost impossible for her to appear tolerably cheerful.
dickens|I started much more naturally then, to find myself confronted by a man in a sober gray dress.
austen|It was an alarming change; and Emma was thinking of it one morning, as what must bring a great deal to agitate and grieve her, when Mr Knightley came in, and distressing thoughts were put by.
dickens|He actually seemed to serve as a zest to Mr Jaggerss wine.
dickens|Than Im sorry to say, Ive eat your pie.
dickens|Thats about where it lights; here we are!
dickens|As she was still looking at the reflection of herself, I thought she was still talking to herself, and kept quiet.
austen|The second began.
dickens|Crush humanity out of shape once more, under similar hammers, and it will twist itself into the same tortured forms.
dickens|I have heerd that my son is a wonderful hand at his business, sir?
dickens|I must not leave it to be supposed that we were ever a great House, or that we made mints of money.
dickens|At this time the coach was ready and the coachman impatient, and we were all preparing to get up, and the prisoners had come over with their keeper,bringing with them that curious flavor of breadpoultice, baize, ropeyarn, and hearthstone, which attends the convict presence.
dickens|Again?
austen|Where is your merit?
austen|Lady Catherine had been rendered so exceedingly angry by the contents of her nephews letter, that Charlotte, really rejoicing in the match, was anxious to get away till the storm was blown over.
austen|Mr Elton looked as if he did not very well know what answer to make; which was exactly the case; for though very much gratified by the kind care of such a fair lady, and not liking to resist any advice of hers, he had not really the least inclination to give up the visit;but Emma, too eager and busy in her own previous conceptions and views to hear him impartially, or see him with clear vision, was very well satisfied with his muttering acknowledgment of its being very cold, certainly very cold, and walked on, rejoicing in having extricated him from Randalls, and secured him the power of sending to inquire after Harriet every hour of the evening.
dickens|Us two being now alone, sir,began Joe.
dickens|We told him why we wanted him to come into the kitchen, and he slowly laid down his hammer, wiped his brow with his arm, took another wipe at it with his apron, and came slouching out, with a curious loose vagabond bend in the knees that strongly distinguished him.
dickens|But it may be soon recalled, and, I have reason to think, will be.
dickens|For gracious sake say something else besides indeed, or youll fidget me to death, said Miss Pross whose character dissociated from stature was shortness.
austen|It is not that such a circumstance would now make me unhappy, but I cannot believe it.
dickens|Then he looked at me, and said, correcting himself,  To be sure!
dickens|This moral mystery seemed too much for the company until Mr Hubble tersely solved it by saying, Naterally wicious.
austen|But it is impossible not to feel uneasiness.
dickens|I knew very well, however, that the appointed place was the little sluicehouse by the limekiln on the marshes, and the hour nine.
austen|Let Wickham be your man.
dickens|The space interposed between myself and them partook of that expansion, and our marshes were any distance off.
austen|Can I do any thing for you?
dickens|Well then!
austen|We cannot suppose he would help it if he could.
dickens|Doctor Manette at home?
dickens|The secret was well kept, and Lucie was unconscious and happy; but he could not fail to observe that the shoemaker, whose hand had been a little out at first, was growing dreadfully skilful, and that he had never been so intent on his work, and that his hands had never been so nimble and expert, as in the dusk of the ninth evening.
austen|He knows that he is a very handsome young man, and a great favourite wherever he goes; and from his general way of talking in unreserved moments, when there are only men present, I am convinced that he does not mean to throw himself away.
dickens|Throughout this part of our intercourse,and it lasted, as will presently be seen, for what I then thought a long time,she habitually reverted to that tone which expressed that our association was forced upon us.
austen|Did not keep the horses a moment.
austen|Imagine what we have been feeling on your account.
austen|If I find him conversable, I shall be glad of his acquaintance; but if he is only a chattering coxcomb, he will not occupy much of my time or thoughts.
austen|She would not stir a step, nor drop a hint.
dickens|You wont succeed, said I.
austen|I know not what to think.
dickens|In the instinctive association of prisoners with shameful crime and disgrace, the newcomer recoiled from this company.
dickens|At about this time, I began to observe that he was getting flushed in the face; as to myself, I felt all face, steeped in wine and smarting.
dickens|He sat down on a chair that stood before the fire, and covered his forehead with his large brown veinous hands.
dickens|Stop him!
austen|It is a necessary of life to me; and having always been used to a very musical society, both at Maple Grove and in Bath, it would have been a most serious sacrifice.
dickens|But this was not the worst of it.
dickens|A village.
dickens|He softly pushed the book over to me, as Provis stood smoking with his eyes on the fire, and I read in it  Young Havishams name was Arthur.
austen|Mrs Weston was alone in the drawingroombut hardly had they been told of the baby, and Mr Woodhouse received the thanks for coming, which he asked for, when a glimpse was caught through the blind, of two figures passing near the window.
austen|Lord, how ashamed I should be of not being married before threeandtwenty!
dickens|Nevertheless, it was not easy, with the face of his beloved wife fresh before him, to compose his mind to what it must bear.
austen|Elizabeth was forced to go.
austen|Her first attempts at usefulness were in an endeavour to find out who were the parents, but Harriet could not tell.
dickens|In wild dreamlike procession, embracing whom they met and pointing him out, they carried him on.
dickens|Mrs Joe has been out a dozen times, looking for you, Pip.
austen|She had a great idea that people who had extensive grounds themselves cared very little for the extensive grounds of any body else; but it was not worth while to attack an error so doubledyed, and therefore only said in reply,  When you have seen more of this country, I am afraid you will think you have overrated Hartfield.
dickens|Defarge spoke, always looking straight before him.
austen|I do not mean, however, to assert that we can be justified in devoting too much of our time to music, for there are certainly other things to be attended to.
austen|It is too much a matter of fact, but here it is.
dickens|The corner has been mentioned as a wonderful corner for echoes; it had begun to echo so resoundingly to the tread of coming feet, that it seemed as though the very mention of that weary pacing to and fro had set it going.
austen|Mr Knightley.
dickens|And the old answer  I cant say.
dickens|Recall it.
dickens|Between Mr Pocket and Herbert I got on fast; and, with one or the other always at my elbow to give me the start I wanted, and clear obstructions out of my road, I must have been as great a dolt as Drummle if I had done less.
dickens|Mr Carton, who had so long sat looking at the ceiling of the court, changed neither his place nor his attitude, even in this excitement.
austen|I have a right to talk on such subjects, without being suspected of introducing Robert Martin.
austen|It is a great deal more natural than one could wish, that a young man, brought up by those who are proud, luxurious, and selfish, should be proud, luxurious, and selfish too.
dickens|While Mrs Pocket tripped up the family with her footstool, read her book of dignities, lost her pockethandkerchief, told us about her grandpapa, and taught the young idea how to shoot, by shooting it into bed whenever it attracted her notice.
dickens|In every rage of wind and rush of rain, I heard pursuers.
dickens|Biddy was Mr Wopsles greataunts granddaughter; I confess myself quite unequal to the working out of the problem, what relation she was to Mr Wopsle.
dickens|I am paid for undertaking it, and I do so.
dickens|I brought it out, and laid it ready for him, and my blood again ran cold when he again took me by both hands to give me good night.
dickens|Ghosts all!
austen|In the first place, she persisted in disbelieving the whole of the matter; secondly, she was very sure that Mr Collins had been taken in; thirdly, she trusted that they would never be happy together; and fourthly, that the match might be broken off.
dickens|Yes.
austen|There will be the leg to be salted, you know, which is so very nice, and the loin to be dressed directly in any manner they like.
dickens|But, sharpest and deepest pain of all,it was for the convict, guilty of I knew not what crimes, and liable to be taken out of those rooms where I sat thinking, and hanged at the Old Bailey door, that I had deserted Joe.
austen|A room at an inn was always damp and dangerous; never properly aired, or fit to be inhabited.
austen|The rest of the evening was spent in conjecturing how soon he would return Mr Bennets visit, and determining when they should ask him to dinner.
austen|As they went downstairs together, Charlotte said  I shall depend on hearing from you very often, Eliza.
dickens|I should have thought Mr Lorry began.
dickens|I asked, more for the sake of saying something than for information.
austen|Ah!
austen|I beg you will not go.
dickens|It is a curious place.
dickens|But the face was in the main one face, and every head was prematurely white.
dickens|Wolf, Ill tell you something more.
dickens|Having thus cleared the way for my expedition to Miss Havishams, I set off by the early morning coach before it was yet light, and was out on the open country road when the day came creeping on, halting and whimpering and shivering, and wrapped in patches of cloud and rags of mist, like a beggar.
austen|said Mr Woodhouse, always the last to make his way in conversation; then give me leave to assure you that you will find her a very agreeable young lady.
austen|I do not like to boast of my own child, but to be sure, Janeone does not often see anybody better looking.
austen|Your time has been properly and delicately spent, if you have been endeavouring for the last four years to bring about this marriage.
dickens|You see, Pip, Joe pursued, as soon as he was past that danger, Miss Havisham done the handsome thing by you.
dickens|We ordered something rather special for dinner, with a bottle of something similarly out of the common way, in order that our minds might be fortified for the occasion, and we might come well up to the mark.
dickens|he interrupted, shaking his great head very slowly.
austen|The fear of being still unwelcome, determined her, though assured of their being at home, to wait in the passage, and send up her name.
austen|Poor Mrs Churchill!
dickens|Dear boy, he answered, clasping my hands, I dont know when we may meet again, and I dont like goodbye.
dickens|we said, stopping.
austen|As to the circumstances of her birth, though in a legal sense she may be called Nobody, it will not hold in common sense.
austen|It is my duty, and I am sure it is my wish, she continued, to have no reserves with you on this subject.
austen|It is evident by this, added Jane, that he comes back no more this winter.
dickens|Lucie with her arms stretched out to him, and with that old look of earnestness so concentrated and intensified, that it seemed as though it had been stamped upon her face expressly to give force and power to it in this one passage of her life.
dickens|What has gone wrong?
dickens|For the present, under the circumstances, we deemed it prudent to make rather light of the matter to Trabbs boy; who, I am convinced, would have been much affected by disappointment, if he had known that his intervention saved me from the limekiln.
dickens|Further, one of those two was already retaken, and had not freed himself of his iron.
austen|He delighted in going to Pemberley, especially when he was least expected.
dickens|Secondly,Yes!
austen|But poor Harriet was such an engrossing charge!
dickens|He looked at no one present, and no one now looked at him; not even Madame Defarge, who had taken up her knitting, and was at work.
dickens|By disappearing from such place, and being no more heard of thereabouts.
austen|But he had given a reason for his interference, which asked no extraordinary stretch of belief.
austen|But of course she did not mention my name to you.
dickens|You know the accused to be the husband of my daughter.
dickens|So, said Estella, I must be taken as I have been made.
dickens|The miserable man was a man of that confined stolidity of mind, that he could not discuss my prospects without having me before him,as it were, to operate upon,and he would drag me up from my stool usually by the collar where I was quiet in a corner, and, putting me before the fire as if I were going to be cooked, would begin by saying, Now, Mum, here is this boy!
austen|Believe me, my dear sir, my gratitude is warmly excited by such affectionate attention; and depend upon it, you will speedily receive from me a letter of thanks for this, and for every other mark of your regard during my stay in Hertfordshire.
dickens|Well!
austen|at least, that I should ever bore people half so much about all the Knightleys together, as she does about Jane Fairfax.
dickens|Never a soul in it but my own self and Mr Jaggers.
austen|I assure you it is very refreshing after sitting so long in one attitude.
dickens|O Miss Havisham, said I, I can do it now.
dickens|Its tone made him uneasy, and the more so because of the inconsistency between it and the hasty letter I had left for him.
dickens|Where?
austen|Ah!
austen|No, no; she has qualities which may be trusted; she will never lead any one really wrong; she will make no lasting blunder; where Emma errs once, she is in the right a hundred times.
austen|Then after a short silence he continued  Lizzy, I bear you no illwill for being justified in your advice to me last May, which, considering the event, shows some greatness of mind.
austen|She could not speak another word.
austen|There was instant pleasure in the sight of them, and still greater pleasure was conveyed in soundfor Mr Weston immediately accosted her with,  How dye do?
austen|those dear little children.
dickens|On the broad landing between Miss Havishams own room and that other room in which the long table was laid out, I saw a gardenchair,a light chair on wheels, that you pushed from behind.
austen|They talked a great deal about him, especially Anne Cox.
dickens|If I could be less affectionate and sensitive, I should have a better digestion and an iron set of nerves.
dickens|You told me you had a proposal; what is it?
dickens|To fail in submission to the authority of the Tribunal would be to put yourself out of Law.
austen|Not at all.
dickens|Why, youre a regular crossexaminer!
austen|A fortunate chance had recommended him to Lady Catherine de Bourgh when the living of Hunsford was vacant; and the respect which he felt for her high rank, and his veneration for her as his patroness, mingling with a very good opinion of himself, of his authority as a clergyman, and his right as a rector, made him altogether a mixture of pride and obsequiousness, selfimportance and humility.
austen|In a doleful voice Mrs Bennet began the projected conversation Oh!
austen|By this time, the walk in the rain had reached Mrs Elton, and her remonstrances now opened upon Jane.
dickens|In the moment of realization, after all his toil and waiting, you cut the ground from under his feet, destroy his idea, and make his gains worthless to him.
austen|poor Harriet!
dickens|If you had brought up your adopted daughter wholly in the dark confinement of these rooms, and had never let her know that there was such a thing as the daylight by which she had never once seen your face,if you had done that, and then, for a purpose had wanted her to understand the daylight and know all about it, you would have been disappointed and angry?
dickens|The coroner, in Mr Wopsles hands, became Timon of Athens; the beadle, Coriolanus.
austen|Lydiathe humiliation, the misery she was bringing on them all, soon swallowed up every private care; and covering her face with her handkerchief, Elizabeth was soon lost to everything else; and, after a pause of several minutes, was only recalled to a sense of her situation by the voice of her companion, who, in a manner which, though it spoke compassion, spoke likewise restraint, said, I am afraid you have been long desiring my absence, nor have I anything to plead in excuse of my stay, but real, though unavailing concern.
dickens|If you mean, Miss Havisham, what have you done to injure me, let me answer.
dickens|Might a mere warmint ask what property?
austen|In Meryton they parted; the two youngest repaired to the lodgings of one of the officers wives, and Elizabeth continued her walk alone, crossing field after field at a quick pace, jumping over stiles and springing over puddles with impatient activity, and finding herself at last within view of the house, with weary ankles, dirty stockings, and a face glowing with the warmth of exercise.
dickens|The last man I should have expected to see in that place of porter at Miss Havishams door.
dickens|You are not going to say into the old Estella?
dickens|Where I might go, what I might do, or when I might return, were questions utterly unknown to me; nor did I vex my mind with them, for it was wholly set on Proviss safety.
dickens|No, dear boy, he said, in the same tone as before, that dont go first.
dickens|Observe!
austen|You have hit upon the very thing to please me.
austen|I should as soon call her mother a wit.
dickens|Then it soared higher, and grew broader and brighter.
austen|You might not see one in a hundred with gentleman so plainly written as in Mr Knightley.
dickens|That you make no admissions.
austen|If any body can deserve him, it must be Miss Taylor.
austen|Amiable and delightful as Miss Woodhouse is, she never gave me the idea of a young woman likely to be attached; and that she was perfectly free from any tendency to being attached to me, was as much my conviction as my wish.
dickens|The prison on the crag was not so dominant as of yore; there were soldiers to guard it, but not many; there were officers to guard the soldiers, but not one of them knew what his men would dobeyond this that it would probably not be what he was ordered.
dickens|He persists, too, in keeping all the provisions upstairs in his room, and serving them out.
austen|I have no reason, I assure you, said he, to be dissatisfied with my reception.
dickens|The wineshop keeper accordingly rolled his eyes about, until they rested upon an elderly gentleman and a young lady, who were seated in a corner.
dickens|Although he did not look very healthy,having pimples on his face, and a breaking out at his mouth,these dreadful preparations quite appalled me.
dickens|And soon the tide began to slacken, and the craft lying at anchor to swing, and presently they had all swung round, and the ships that were taking advantage of the new tide to get up to the Pool began to crowd upon us in a fleet, and we kept under the shore, as much out of the strength of the tide now as we could, standing carefully off from low shallows and mudbanks.
dickens|But I loved Joe,perhaps for no better reason in those early days than because the dear fellow let me love him,and, as to him, my inner self was not so easily composed.
dickens|Then, my dear Herbert, I cannot tell you how dependent and uncertain I feel, and how exposed to hundreds of chances.
dickens|I can eat no more.
dickens|English.
dickens|Only, said I, that you would not confound them with the others.
austen|Had Miss Bingley known what pain she was then giving her beloved friend, she undoubtedly would have refrained from the hint; but she had merely intended to discompose Elizabeth by bringing forward the idea of a man to whom she believed her partial, to make her betray a sensibility which might injure her in Darcys opinion, and, perhaps, to remind the latter of all the follies and absurdities by which some part of her family were connected with that corps.
dickens|He did not turn me upside down this time to get at what I had, but left me right side upwards while I opened the bundle and emptied my pockets.
austen|Short letters from Frank were received at Randalls, communicating all that was immediately important of their state and plans.
austen|Let me entreat you to run no risks.
dickens|While you do it, let me take this ribbon from your hair, and shake out your hair like this of mine!
austen|Dont I hear another carriage?
austen|I was uncomfortable enough, I may say unhappy.
dickens|While he said these words in a leisurely, critical style, she continued to look at every one of us in regular succession as we sat.
austen|The idea of his returning no more Elizabeth treated with the utmost contempt.
dickens|Nothing had been taken away from any part of the house.
austen|He had met with them in a little perplexity, which must be laid before Emma.
austen|Mr Gardiner soon wrote again to his brother.
austen|If he were, every thing else must give way; but otherwise his friend Cole had been saying so much about his dining with himhad made such a point of it, that he had promised him conditionally to come.
dickens|During the whole of this scene, which lasted some three hours, he had plenty of shouting and weeping and sentimental company, and throughout Defarge held him by the collar, as if to restrain him from flying at the objects of his brief devotion and tearing them to pieces.
dickens|What a fellow of resource you are!
austen|This had happened the year before.
austen|This, Emma could not doubt, was all for herself.
dickens|asked Miss Pross again, presently.
austen|She tried to stop him; but vainly; he would go on, and say it all.
austen|It is a beautiful moonlight night; and so mild that I must draw back from your great fire.
austen|I think we shall never materially disagree about the writer again; but I will not delay you by a long preface.
dickens|This is an ignorant, determined man, who has long had one fixed idea.
dickens|I wonder you shouldnt have been sure of that, I returned, for we heard it up at home, and thats farther away, and we were shut in besides.
dickens|When didnt you?
dickens|They dread him so much?
dickens|I had my box brought alongside me in a barrow.
austen|He did not suppose they could be damp now, in the middle of the day.
dickens|What is he now?
dickens|Free and happy, back in the old house in Soho though it had nothing in it like the real house, unaccountably released and light of heart, he was with Lucie again, and she told him it was all a dream, and he had never gone away.
austen|But you need not imagine Mr Weston to have felt what you would feel in giving up Henry or John.
austen|Young ladies are delicate plants.
austen|I had no notion that he liked me so very much, said Harriet, contemplating the letter.
austen|I can hardly write for laughing.
dickens|I saw him through the window, seizing his horses mane, and mounting in his blundering brutal manner, and sidling and backing away.
dickens|cried Saint Antoine, after glaring round for a new means of death; here is one of his soldiers to be left on guard!
austen|28thand began, My dear Madam, but I forget how it went on; and it was signed F.
austen|His wish of introducing his sister to her was a compliment of the highest kind.
austen|Her visit to AbbeyMill, this summer, seems to have done his business.
austen|Oh!
austen|Leave shame to her.
austen|Oh!
austen|She looked on with some amusement.
austen|His character was to speak for itself.
dickens|You will leave me them?
dickens|said my sister.
dickens|He dont want no wittles.
austen|Every thing as natural and simple as possible.
austen|Oh!
dickens|Is your hand steady enough to write?
dickens|Was a soldier in the line and bought his discharge.
dickens|Your own.
austen|Not yet, replied Jane.
dickens|Will you tell me how that came about?
austen|Harriet was silent.
dickens|Yes I do, Mum, said Pumblechook; but wait a bit.
austen|But to be candid without ostentation or designto take the good of everybodys character and make it still better, and say nothing of the badbelongs to you alone.
dickens|It was dark when Charles Darnay left him, and it was an hour later and darker when Lucie came home; she hurried into the room alonefor Miss Pross had gone straight upstairsand was surprised to find his readingchair empty.
austen|It is the garden of England, you know.
dickens|Without deigning to look at the assemblage a second time, Monsieur the Marquis leaned back in his seat, and was just being driven away with the air of a gentleman who had accidentally broke some common thing, and had paid for it, and could afford to pay for it; when his ease was suddenly disturbed by a coin flying into his carriage, and ringing on its floor.
dickens|Tell him that, and hell take it as a compliment, answered Wemmick; he dont mean that you should know what to make of it.
dickens|So, when we went into the parlor where Mrs Whimple and Clara were seated at work, I said nothing of my own interest in Mr Campbell, but kept it to myself.
austen|To walk by the side of this child, and talk to and question her, was the most natural thing in the world, or would have been the most natural, had she been acting just then without design; and by this means the others were still able to keep ahead, without any obligation of waiting for her.
dickens|I address myself to that Doctor.
dickens|I will never stir from your side, said I, when I am suffered to be near you.
austen|It was hot; and after walking some time over the gardens in a scattered, dispersed way, scarcely any three together, they insensibly followed one another to the delicious shade of a broad short avenue of limes, which stretching beyond the garden at an equal distance from the river, seemed the finish of the pleasure grounds.
austen|They entered it in one of its lowest points, and drove for some time through a beautiful wood stretching over a wide extent.
austen|But, perhaps, Mr Bingley did not take the house so much for the convenience of the neighbourhood as for his own, and we must expect him to keep it or quit it on the same principle.
dickens|La Force!
austen|Mr Westons ball was to be a real thing.
dickens|Yes, sir.
dickens|The women were seated at a long table, reading and writing, knitting, sewing, and embroidering; the men were for the most part standing behind their chairs, or lingering up and down the room.
austen|He was at the same time haughty, reserved, and fastidious, and his manners, though wellbred, were not inviting.
dickens|You do it, and you never dare to say a word or dare to make a sign concerning your having seen such a person as me, or any person sumever, and you shall be let to live.
dickens|That, coming on Wemmicks letter and the mornings busy preparation, turned the scale.
austen|Thy ready wit the word will soon supply.
dickens|I know that, as in her childhood she had no parent, so she is now devoted to you with all the constancy and fervour of her present years and character, united to the trustfulness and attachment of the early days in which you were lost to her.
dickens|What lay heaviest on my mind was, the consideration that six days intervened between me and the day of departure; for I could not divest myself of a misgiving that something might happen to London in the meanwhile, and that, when I got there, it would be either greatly deteriorated or clean gone.
dickens|I salute you, citizen.
dickens|Citizen Doctor, said the first, reluctantly, he has been denounced to the Section of Saint Antoine.
austen|So Emma thought, at least.
austen|Mrs Cole seemed to be relating something of her that was expected to be very interesting.
austen|I like her appearance, said Elizabeth, struck with other ideas.
austen|What shall you do!
austen|It does not bear talking of.
austen|As Elizabeth had no longer any interest of her own to pursue, she turned her attention almost entirely on her sister and Mr Bingley; and the train of agreeable reflections which her observations gave birth to, made her perhaps almost as happy as Jane.
dickens|As to all the rest, he was humble and contrite, and I never knew him complain.
dickens|Ive done wonderfully well.
dickens|said the trembling Spy, as he paused for a last moment.
austen|Mr and Mrs Elton appeared; and all the smiles and the proprieties passed.
dickens|I rather thought I would give up that point too.
austen|Oh!
austen|for I know gentlemen do not like morning visits, and Mr Eltons time is so engaged.
austen|My brother admires her greatly already; he will have frequent opportunity now of seeing her on the most intimate footing; her relations all wish the connection as much as his own; and a sisters partiality is not misleading me, I think, when I call Charles most capable of engaging any womans heart.
dickens|As I thought the time was now come for pursuing the theme I had at heart, I said, turning on Mr Jaggers  I did ask something of Miss Havisham, however, sir.
dickens|May I ask the name?
austen|How very odd!
dickens|They danced to the popular Revolution song, keeping a ferocious time that was like a gnashing of teeth in unison.
austen|I am determined against all interference.
dickens|When?
dickens|You made acquaintance with my son, sir, said the old man, in his chirping way, while he warmed his hands at the blaze, at his office, I expect?
dickens|And you have reared the boy, with the intention of taking him for your apprentice; is that so, Mr Gargery?
austen|And here are a new set of Irish melodies.
dickens|My own!
dickens|A rude clattering of feet over the floor, and four rough men in red caps, armed with sabres and pistols, entered the room.
dickens|She drew closer to him, and kissed his cheek and his hand.
austen|my dear, but Perry had many doubts about the sea doing her any good; and as to myself, I have been long perfectly convinced, though perhaps I never told you so before, that the sea is very rarely of use to any body.
dickens|She looked full at me when I said this, and replied, Go on.
dickens|If Young Pip has a halfholiday, do as much for Old Orlick.
austen|She is on her road somewhere, I dare say, and so, passing through Meryton, thought she might as well call on you.
dickens|When you say you love me, I know what you mean, as a form of words; but nothing more.
dickens|Charles is summoned for tomorrow.
dickens|The eyes of Monsieur Defarge were studying his wife at her knitting when the elderly gentleman advanced from his corner, and begged the favour of a word.
dickens|He wore the blue bag in the manner of my greatcoat, and was strutting along the pavement towards me on the opposite side of the street, attended by a company of delighted young friends to whom he from time to time exclaimed, with a wave of his hand, Dont know yah!
dickens|I made a foolish pretence of not at first recognizing it, and then told her.
dickens|That person is the person from whom you derive your expectations, and the secret is solely held by that person and by me.
austen|A Miss Hawkins  I was with Mr Cole on business an hour and a half ago.
austen|I believe it is very true, my dear, indeed, said Mr Woodhouse, with a sigh.
dickens|That time passed, and her little Lucie lay on her bosom.
dickens|I am safe.
austen|Elizabeth silently attended her.
dickens|Especially, said Mr Pumblechook, be grateful, boy, to them which brought you up by hand.
dickens|When the mail got successfully to Dover, in the course of the forenoon, the head drawer at the Royal George Hotel opened the coachdoor as his custom was.
dickens|A figure entering at the door threw a shadow on Madame Defarge which she felt to be a new one.
dickens|When I had exhausted the garden and a greenhouse with nothing in it but a fallendown grapevine and some bottles, I found myself in the dismal corner upon which I had looked out of the window.
austen|How is she today?
dickens|One, two, three, and now I am in for it.
dickens|Whatll I do with it!
austen|Let us sit down.
dickens|By this time we had come to the house, where I found his room to be one just within the sidedoor, with a little window in it looking on the courtyard.
dickens|Lower the lamp yonder!
dickens|He had known the last witness seven or eight years; that was merely a coincidence.
austen|She is happy then, said her father drily; and her residence there will probably be of some duration.
austen|But take care of yourself.
dickens|The figure was not; thetheimage; the fancy?
austen|You certainly do, she replied with a smile; but it does not follow that the interruption must be unwelcome.
dickens|If you dont know that your Bills in good hands, I know it.
austen|No; do not pity me till I reached Highbury, and saw how ill I had made her.
dickens|Theres some of the birds flown from the cages.
austen|When I look back to the first time I saw him!
dickens|They are, Mr Lorry whispered the words, glancing fearfully round at the locked room, murdering the prisoners.
dickens|See!
austen|No, she would go home.
austen|The list she drew up when only fourteenI remember thinking it did her judgment so much credit, that I preserved it some time; and I dare say she may have made out a very good list now.
dickens|May it otherwise be light and happy!
austen|Whatever I do is done in a hurry, replied he; and therefore if I should resolve to quit Netherfield, I should probably be off in five minutes.
austen|My heart was in Highbury, and my business was to get my body thither as often as might be, and with the least suspicion.
dickens|In the stone face over the great window of the bedchamber where the murder was done, two fine dints were pointed out in the sculptured nose, which everybody recognised, and which nobody had seen of old; and on the scarce occasions when two or three ragged peasants emerged from the crowd to take a hurried peep at Monsieur the Marquis petrified, a skinny finger would not have pointed to it for a minute, before they all started away among the moss and leaves, like the more fortunate hares who could find a living there.
dickens|It was like the last feeble echo of a sound made long and long ago.
austen|And if the Dixons should absolutely deny all knowledge of it we must conclude it to come from the Campbells.
dickens|In course of time I saw his hand appear on the other side of Miss Skiffins; but at that moment Miss Skiffins neatly stopped him with the green glove, unwound his arm again as if it were an article of dress, and with the greatest deliberation laid it on the table before her.
dickens|Who is it?
dickens|With that, he looked back, and nodded at this dead plant, and then cast his eyes about him in walking out of the yard, as if he were considering what other pot would go best in its place.
dickens|After Mr Pumblechook had driven off, and when my sister was washing up, I stole into the forge to Joe, and remained by him until he had done for the night.
austen|Let us hope for better things.
austen|He talked of Harriet, and praised her so warmly, that she could not suppose any thing wanting which a little time would not add.
dickens|Yes.
austen|I speak as a friend, Emma.
austen|Thoughtlessness, want of attention to other peoples feelings, and want of resolution, will do the business.
austen|My dear Emma, as long as he thinks so, it is so; but if he really loves Jane Fairfax  Nonsense!
austen|But with me, it is not so.
dickens|Burn me twice over, if I can say!
austen|But now, I am at such a distance from heris not it hard, Miss Woodhouse?
austen|I wish you had been there, my dear, to have given him one of your setdowns.
dickens|My appetite vanished instantly, and I knew no peace or rest until the day arrived.
austen|Miss Woodhouse and Mr Frank Churchill; I never saw any thing equal to it.
dickens|Keep in sunders!
dickens|As soon as they were established in their new residence, and her father had entered on the routine of his avocations, she arranged the little household as exactly as if her husband had been there.
austen|I wish you very happy and very rich, and by refusing your hand, do all in my power to prevent your being otherwise.
dickens|I begged Joe to be comforted, for as he said we had ever been the best of friends, and as I said we ever would be so.
dickens|Thank you.
dickens|I met himby accidenta day and halfs journey out of Paris.
austen|Yes; he introduced us to his sister.
austen|I believe it is the only way that Mr Woodhouse thinks the fruit thoroughly wholesome.
dickens|The Aged prepared such a haystack of buttered toast, that I could scarcely see him over it as it simmered on an iron stand hooked on to the topbar; while Miss Skiffins brewed such a jorum of tea, that the pig in the back premises became strongly excited, and repeatedly expressed his desire to participate in the entertainment.
austen|Her sister had not the smallest objection, and the pianoforte was opened; and Darcy, after a few moments recollection, was not sorry for it.
dickens|Tst!
dickens|Early in the week, or say Wednesday, you might do what you know of, if you felt disposed to try it.
austen|Yes.
dickens|I can be well recommended by all the neighbors, and I hope I can be industrious and patient, and teach myself while I teach others.
dickens|O yes, I constantly expect to see him, returned Herbert, because I never hear him, without expecting him to come tumbling through the ceiling.
dickens|Monseigneur, they are so many, they increase so fast, there is so much want.
dickens|What do you want?
austen|M.
dickens|Under these circumstances I thought myself well rid of him for a shilling.
dickens|Alexandre Manette.
dickens|You are oncommon in some things.
dickens|What are you stopping for?
austen|Lady Catherine was generally speakingstating the mistakes of the three others, or relating some anecdote of herself.
dickens|And her agitated hand waved to them from a chaise window, and she was gone.
dickens|cried Mr Lorry, rubbing his chin, and looking at his visitor dubiously.
austen|This is not quite enough to make her understand his character.
austen|Mr Knightley, who, for some reason best known to himself, had certainly taken an early dislike to Frank Churchill, was only growing to dislike him more.
dickens|Yes, Miss Havisham.
dickens|Three voices.
austen|I am doatingly fond of musicpassionately fond;and my friends say I am not entirely devoid of taste; but as to any thing else, upon my honour my performance is mediocre to the last degree.
dickens|Pressing his hand to his bewildered head, Darnay sat down at the table.
dickens|My Walworth sentiments must be taken at Walworth; none but my official sentiments can be taken in this office.
austen|But I am a partial old friend.
austen|I know that I must have disgusted you.
dickens|They had not been at home many hours, when he presented himself.
dickens|In my degradation I have not been so degraded but that the sight of you with your father, and of this home made such a home by you, has stirred old shadows that I thought had died out of me.
dickens|From these pilgrimages to the jug and basin, he returned with such eccentricities of damp headgear as no words can describe; which were made the more ludicrous by his anxious gravity.
dickens|Infected with the new doctrines, said a third, eyeing the direction through his glass in passing; set himself in opposition to the last Marquis, abandoned the estates when he inherited them, and left them to the ruffian herd.
austen|I hope you turned directly.
austen|My dear sir, you are too obliging.
austen|and discover that he is a gentleman!
austen|She dared not relate the other half of Mr Darcys letter, nor explain to her sister how sincerely she had been valued by her friend.
dickens|I cannot undertake to say that he was.
dickens|Doctor Manette.
austen|I would go and see her if I could have the carriage.
austen|I cannot doubt it.
austen|I could not help being provoked; for after all my pains, and when I had really made a very good likeness of itMrs Weston and I were quite agreed in thinking it very likeonly too handsometoo flatteringbut that was a fault on the right sideafter all this, came poor dear Isabellas cold approbation ofYes, it was a little likebut to be sure it did not do him justice.
austen|Mrs Bennets eyes sparkled.
austen|The cold repast was over, and the party were to go out once more to see what had not yet been seen, the old Abbey fishponds; perhaps get as far as the clover, which was to be begun cutting on the morrow, or, at any rate, have the pleasure of being hot, and growing cool again.
austen|At that moment, Sir William Lucas appeared close to them, meaning to pass through the set to the other side of the room; but on perceiving Mr Darcy, he stopped with a bow of superior courtesy to compliment him on his dancing and his partner.
austen|But it is done; we are reconciled, dearer, much dearer, than ever, and no moments uneasiness can ever occur between us again.
dickens|The tide, beginning to run down at nine, and being with us until three, we intended still to creep on after it had turned, and row against it until dark.
dickens|and, after raising this fictitious alarm, darting in again with an undutiful grin.
dickens|said Joe.
austen|Mr Perry, said he, in a voice of very strong displeasure, would do as well to keep his opinion till it is asked for.
dickens|He is bound as before, and in his mouth there is a gagtied so, with a tight string, making him look almost as if he laughed.
dickens|And why look there?
austen|Mr Knightley loves to find fault with me, you knowin a jokeit is all a joke.
dickens|He was highly popular, and I found that he took the familiar department of Mr Jaggerss business; though something of the state of Mr Jaggers hung about him too, forbidding approach beyond certain limits.
dickens|Buried how long?
austen|They were a couple worth looking at.
austen|There was now an interest, however, in believing the housekeeper; and they soon became sensible that the authority of a servant who had known him since he was four years old, and whose own manners indicated respectability, was not to be hastily rejected.
dickens|I think, sir, said the spy, in the meanest manner, as he turned to Mr Lorry, I may appeal to a gentleman of your years and benevolence, to put it to this other gentleman, so much your junior, whether he can under any circumstances reconcile it to his station to play that Ace of which he has spoken.
dickens|Madame Defarge immediately called to her husband that she would get them, and went, knitting, out of the lamplight, through the courtyard.
austen|But I have no idea that she has yet ever seen a man she cared for.
austen|It pains me to offend you.
dickens|My business habits had one other bright feature, which I called leaving a Margin.
dickens|How was it!
dickens|said Monsieur, calmly looking out.
dickens|Whatever housekeeping arrangement that may be, said Miss Pross, striving to dry her eyes and compose herself, I have no doubt it is best that Mrs Cruncher should have it entirely under her own superintendence.
dickens|Lowness goes first.
dickens|How dared you to come betwixt me and a young woman I liked?
austen|But you are always kind.
dickens|We went on our way upstairs after this episode; and, as we were going up, we met a gentleman groping his way down.
dickens|The direction that I took was not that in which my old home lay, nor that in which we had pursued the convicts.
dickens|Within an hour or two from this.
austen|It would be a great comfort to Mr Weston, as he grew olderand even Mr Weston might be growing older ten years henceto have his fireside enlivened by the sports and the nonsense, the freaks and the fancies of a child never banished from home; and Mrs Westonno one could doubt that a daughter would be most to her; and it would be quite a pity that any one who so well knew how to teach, should not have their powers in exercise again.
dickens|He turned himself sideways to the carriage, and leaned back, with his face thrown up to the sky, and his head hanging down; then recovered himself, fumbled with his cap, and made a bow.
dickens|Take Mr Pips written order, and pay him twenty pounds.
austen|I have heard him lamenting her having no instrument repeatedly; oftener than I should suppose such a circumstance would, in the common course of things, occur to him.
austen|And Lydia used to want to go to London, added Kitty.
dickens|There was a conwict off last night, said Joe, aloud, after sunsetgun.
dickens|But whats this?
dickens|In your own heart, do you feel quite certain?
austen|Ah!
austen|Quite wrong, my dear aunt; there is no likeness at all.
austen|I rather believe you are giving me more credit for acuteness than I deserve.
dickens|Heres old Bill Barley on the flat of his back, by the Lord.
dickens|When these points were settled, and so far carried out as that I had begun to work in earnest, it occurred to me that if I could retain my bedroom in Barnards Inn, my life would be agreeably varied, while my manners would be none the worse for Herberts society.
dickens|After that I fell among those thieves, the nine figures, who seemed every evening to do something new to disguise themselves and baffle recognition.
dickens|But she seemed to be everywhere.
dickens|When it closed upon him, I experienced the first moment of relief I had known since the night of his arrival.
austen|You know how I detest it, unless I am particularly acquainted with my partner.
austen|Having resolved to do it without loss of time, as his leave of absence extended only to the following Saturday, and having no feelings of diffidence to make it distressing to himself even at the moment, he set about it in a very orderly manner, with all the observances, which he supposed a regular part of the business.
austen|And now I come to the principal, the only important part of my conduct while belonging to you, which excites my own anxiety, or requires very solicitous explanation.
austen|He did really look and speak as if in a state of no common enjoyment.
austen|But you should tell them of the letter, my dear, said her father.
austen|I am sure he will be vastly happy to oblige you, and will save all the best of the covies for you.
austen|besides dear Jane at presentand she really eats nothingmakes such a shocking breakfast, you would be quite frightened if you saw it.
austen|I beg your pardon; one knows exactly what to think.
dickens|I am not afraid, but I am little and weak, and it will give me more courage.
austen|I should hope not; but really when I look around among my acquaintance, I tremble.
dickens|The answer is, returned Joe, sternly, No.
dickens|Miss Pross recalled soon afterwards, and to the end of her life remembered, that as she pressed her hands on Sydneys arm and looked up in his face, imploring him to do no hurt to Solomon, there was a braced purpose in the arm and a kind of inspiration in the eyes, which not only contradicted his light manner, but changed and raised the man.
austen|I should be extremely sorry to be giving them any pain.
dickens|So, in the brewery itself,by which I mean the large paved lofty place in which they used to make the beer, and where the brewing utensils still were.
dickens|What do I make of it?
austen|Harriet is disgraced by any comparison.
dickens|My depression was not alleviated by the announcement, for, I had supposed that establishment to be an hotel kept by Mr Barnard, to which the Blue Boar in our town was a mere publichouse.
dickens|And yet keeps that bench and those tools beside him?
dickens|I am so distracted with fear and hope for our precious creatures, said Miss Pross, wildly crying, that I am incapable of forming any plan.
austen|Oh!
dickens|But, like you, I have done well since, and you must let me pay them back.
austen|If I had been able, said she, to carry my point in going to Brighton, with all my family, this would not have happened; but poor dear Lydia had nobody to take care of her.
austen|I believe I have now told you every thing.
austen|A sweet, interesting creature.
dickens|But there are plenty of people anywhere, wholl do that for you.
dickens|echoed madame.
dickens|I glanced down at the foot from which the shoe was absent, and saw that the silk stocking on it, once white, now yellow, had been trodden ragged.
austen|As to myself, I am very sorry that you should have been giving way to any feelingsNothing could be farther from my wishesyour attachment to my friend Harrietyour pursuit of her, pursuit, it appeared, gave me great pleasure, and I have been very earnestly wishing you success but had I supposed that she were not your attraction to Hartfield, I should certainly have thought you judged ill in making your visits so frequent.
austen|It was the work of a moment.
austen|as soon as she was within the door Well!
austen|After being long fed with hopes of a speedy visit from Mr and Mrs Suckling, the Highbury world were obliged to endure the mortification of hearing that they could not possibly come till the autumn.
dickens|said the strange man.
dickens|Guess.
dickens|Nothing would induce him to speak more.
austen|Miss Bingleys civility to Elizabeth increased at last very rapidly, as well as her affection for Jane; and when they parted, after assuring the latter of the pleasure it would always give her to see her either at Longbourn or Netherfield, and embracing her most tenderly, she even shook hands with the former.
dickens|No, I will not, sir, returned Mr Crunches as if nothing were further from his thoughts or practicewhich I dont say it iswot I would humbly offer to you, sir, would be this.
austen|said she.
dickens|He couldnt say how long he might be, having a case on.
dickens|My right arm was tolerably restored; disfigured, but fairly serviceable.
dickens|Do it twenty or fifty times, and there is nothing special in your doing it the twentyfirst or fiftyfirst.
dickens|Her inducement to come to me, relying on my confidence, had been the hope that I could tell her the name and place of abode.
dickens|In my heart I believed her to be right; and yet I took it rather ill, too, that she should be so positive on the point.
austen|Since such were her feelings, it only remained, he thought, to secure and expedite a marriage, which, in his very first conversation with Wickham, he easily learnt had never been his design.
dickens|It is scarcely worth mentioning, only its as well to do as other people do.
dickens|I have not, said Miss Havisham.
dickens|He has a watch and a chain and a ring and a breastpin and a handsome suit of clothes.
dickens|I thought those were high and great emotions.
dickens|Because, if it is to spite her, Biddy pursued, I should thinkbut you know bestthat might be better and more independently done by caring nothing for her words.
austen|I am no stranger to the particulars of your youngest sisters infamous elopement.
dickens|Cheer up, and have a thankful heart.
austen|Are the others coming out?
austen|I am glad it occurred to me to mention it; for it would really be discreditable to you to let them go alone.
austen|Do not be impatient, Emma; it will all come out too soon.
dickens|Yes, said I.
dickens|Meanwhile, councils went on in the kitchen at home, fraught with almost insupportable aggravation to my exasperated spirit.
dickens|Monsieur, said I, in my profession, the communications of patients are always received in confidence.
dickens|I will always remember it, dear Heart!
dickens|Without doubt.
dickens|The traveller fared slowly on his way, who fared towards Paris from England in the autumn of the year one thousand seven hundred and ninetytwo.
dickens|Business had taken Herbert on a journey to Marseilles.
austen|Can you come?
dickens|I am not afraid to die, Citizen Evremonde, but I have done nothing.
dickens|I told her I was going to be apprenticed to Joe, I believed; and I enlarged upon my knowing nothing and wanting to know everything, in the hope that she might offer some help towards that desirable end.
dickens|I noticed that Miss Havisham put down the jewel exactly on the spot from which she had taken it up.
dickens|from the universal throat again.
austen|I declare I do not know a more awful object than Darcy, on particular occasions, and in particular places; at his own house especially, and of a Sunday evening, when he has nothing to do.
dickens|You would have been disposed of for so many shillings according to the market price of the article, and Dunstable the butcher would have come up to you as you lay in your straw, and he would have whipped you under his left arm, and with his right he would have tucked up his frock to get a penknife from out of his waistcoatpocket, and he would have shed your blood and had your life.
austen|Pray, Mr Knightley, said Emma, who had been smiling to herself through a great part of this speech, how do you know that Mr Martin did not speak yesterday?
austen|Papa, do you not think it an excellent improvement?
austen|Mrs John Knightley was a pretty, elegant little woman, of gentle, quiet manners, and a disposition remarkably amiable and affectionate; wrapt up in her family; a devoted wife, a doating mother, and so tenderly attached to her father and sister that, but for these higher ties, a warmer love might have seemed impossible.
dickens|But when I fell into the mistake I have so long remained in, at least you led me on?
dickens|Finally, I went out into the air, with a dim perception that there was something unwonted in the conduct of the sunshine, and found that I had slumberously got to the turnpike without having taken any account of the road.
austen|They joined company and proceeded together.
dickens|Courage!
austen|And so, I suppose, they often talk of having Longbourn when your father is dead.
dickens|His expression was, a round score o year ago, and amost directly after I took up wi Compeyson.
austen|His name had never been voluntarily mentioned before them by her niece; and the kind of halfexpectation which Mrs Gardiner had formed, of their being followed by a letter from him, had ended in nothing.
austen|It was a union of the highest promise of felicity in itself, and without one real, rational difficulty to oppose or delay it.
dickens|I am disgusted with my calling and with my life.
dickens|Your money came out of, or went into, wormy old wooden drawers, particles of which flew up your nose and down your throat when they were opened and shut.
dickens|I heard her steps proceed to the pantry.
austen|As it principally concerns yourself, you ought to know its contents.
dickens|For the love of Heaven, of justice, of generosity, of the honour of your noble name, I supplicate you, Monsieur heretofore the Marquis, to succour and release me.
austen|We may compare our different opinions.
austen|Three months, she says so, positively, as I am going to have the pleasure of reading to you.
austen|I have been a disappointed man, and my spirits will not bear solitude.
austen|Colonel Forster believed that more than a thousand pounds would be necessary to clear his expenses at Brighton.
dickens|I glanced about me, and saw that the hay and straw were trampled over the floor, as if there had been a struggle.
austen|Again his astonishment was obvious; and he looked at her with an expression of mingled incredulity and mortification.
dickens|My bedstead, divested of its curtains, had been removed, with me upon it, into the sittingroom, as the airiest and largest, and the carpet had been taken away, and the room kept always fresh and wholesome night and day.
dickens|Find out some respectable woman with a little propertysomebody in the landlady way, or lodgingletting wayand marry her, against a rainy day.
dickens|I was falling into meditation on my guardians greatness, when Wemmick remarked  As to the absence of plate, thats only his natural depth, you know.
austen|At that instant, she felt that years of happiness could not make Jane or herself amends for moments of such painful confusion.
dickens|I distinctly understood that he was working himself up with its contents to make an end of me.
dickens|Jacques, said Defarge; judiciously show a cat milk, if you wish her to thirst for it.
dickens|And a cool four thousand, Pip!
austen|I never heard of her existence till the day before yesterday.
dickens|The frightful deeds that were to be soon done, were probably unimagined at that time in the brains of the doers.
dickens|Everything was unchanged, and Miss Havisham was alone.
austen|You are a judge.
austen|You must know I have a vast dislike to puppiesquite a horror of them.
austen|They told me something, said Harriet rather hesitatingly; but it is nothing of any consequence.
austen|That is the reason of her writing out of rule, as we call it; for, in the common course, we should not have heard from her before next Tuesday or Wednesday.
dickens|I heard, Miss Havisham, said I, rather at a loss, that you were so kind as to wish me to come and see you, and I came directly.
austen|She had heard and seen it all; and felt some curiosity to know whether the wet walk of this morning had produced any.
austen|I must spend some time with them; I am sure they will want it;afterwards I may probably be glad to dispose of myself.
dickens|What floor do you want?
dickens|Killed!
austen|Mrs Weston, I am not to be talked out of my dislike of Harriet Smith, or my dread of its doing them both harm.
dickens|It was in vain for Madame Defarge to struggle and to strike; Miss Pross, with the vigorous tenacity of love, always so much stronger than hate, clasped her tight, and even lifted her from the floor in the struggle that they had.
austen|Mr Knightley and Harriet Smith!
dickens|It is little to relinquish.
austen|She found that she was to receive no other answer, and, after a short pause added  I think I have understood that Mr Bingley has not much idea of ever returning to Netherfield again?
dickens|Can I spare him?
dickens|You would not object to cancel his indentures at his request and for his good?
dickens|You will get me out of your thoughts in a week.
austen|I was quite surprized;very glad, I am sure; but really quite surprized.
dickens|Why do I do it?
dickens|Everybody must who sees her, Miss Havisham.
dickens|As it pleased Heaven in its mercy to restore him so soon, I should have great hope.
dickens|His son obeyed, and the crowd approached; they were bawling and hissing round a dingy hearse and dingy mourning coach, in which mourning coach there was only one mourner, dressed in the dingy trappings that were considered essential to the dignity of the position.
dickens|On a moderate computation, it was many months, that Sunday, since I had left Joe and Biddy.
dickens|Besides the glancing tears that shone among the smiles of the little group when it was done, some diamonds, very bright and sparkling, glanced on the brides hand, which were newly released from the dark obscurity of one of Mr Lorrys pockets.
dickens|And even then, dear boy, said he, pulling a greasy little clasped black Testament out of his pocket, well have him on his oath.
dickens|The happiness of his own chosen English home, the necessity of being always actively employed, the swift changes and troubles of the time which had followed on one another so fast, that the events of this week annihilated the immature plans of last week, and the events of the week following made all new again; he knew very well, that to the force of these circumstances he had yieldednot without disquiet, but still without continuous and accumulating resistance.
dickens|If any one of these men, or all of these men, were disposed to spare himwhich is a large supposition; for what is his life, or any mans to them!
austen|The refreshment of Randalls was absolutely necessary.
austen|No rain at all.
austen|Lady Catherine seemed quite astonished at not receiving a direct answer; and Elizabeth suspected herself to be the first creature who had ever dared to trifle with so much dignified impertinence.
dickens|Not a man of them, sir, would be bold enough to try it on, for love or money.
austen|The indirect boast; for you are really proud of your defects in writing, because you consider them as proceeding from a rapidity of thought and carelessness of execution, which, if not estimable, you think at least highly interesting.
austen|Remember, Eliza, that he does not know Janes disposition as you do.
dickens|I am not frightened for myself, my father.
dickens|Halloa!
dickens|And this, said he, dandling my hands up and down in his, as he puffed at his pipe,and this is the gentleman what I made!
austen|She believed she had been foolish, but it had alarmed her, and she had been within half a minute of sending for Mr Perry.
austen|She wanted me to nurse my cold by staying at home today, and yet will not promise to avoid the danger of catching an ulcerated sore throat herself.
austen|That is as it happens.
dickens|A most earnest, pressing, and emphatic entreaty, addressed to you in the most pathetic tones of the voice so dear to you, that you well remember.
dickens|I connected the title by which the boy had addressed the elder brother, with the initial letter embroidered on the scarf, and had no difficulty in arriving at the conclusion that I had seen that nobleman very lately.
austen|And there will be the two Gilberts, young Cox, my father, and myself, besides Mr Knightley.
austen|I shall not attempt calling on Mrs Goddard, for I really do not think she cares for any thing but boiled pork when we dress the leg it will be another thing.
dickens|If youre ready, his Majesty the King is.
dickens|So the guard of the Dover mail thought to himself, that Friday night in November, one thousand seven hundred and seventyfive, lumbering up Shooters Hill, as he stood on his own particular perch behind the mail, beating his feet, and keeping an eye and a hand on the armchest before him, where a loaded blunderbuss lay at the top of six or eight loaded horsepistols, deposited on a substratum of cutlass.
dickens|Ill redeem it at once.
austen|But he had fancied her in love with him; that evidently must have been his dependence; and after raving a little about the seeming incongruity of gentle manners and a conceited head, Emma was obliged in common honesty to stop and admit that her own behaviour to him had been so complaisant and obliging, so full of courtesy and attention, as supposing her real motive unperceived might warrant a man of ordinary observation and delicacy, like Mr Elton, in fancying himself a very decided favourite.
dickens|His linen, though not of a fineness in accordance with his stockings, was as white as the tops of the waves that broke upon the neighbouring beach, or the specks of sail that glinted in the sunlight far at sea.
austen|Emma had never been to Box Hill; she wished to see what every body found so well worth seeing, and she and Mr Weston had agreed to chuse some fine morning and drive thither.
dickens|Give me your fork, Mum, and take the baby, said Flopson.
austen|He is just what a young man ought to be, said she, sensible, goodhumoured, lively; and I never saw such happy manners!
austen|Mr Collins returned most punctually on Monday fortnight, but his reception at Longbourn was not quite so gracious as it had been on his first introduction.
austen|Mr Weston must be between forty and fifty.
dickens|Forasmuch as they hang in my memory by only this one slender thread, I dont know what they did, except that they forbore to remove me.
dickens|But my dear young friend, said Mr Pumblechook, you must be hungry, you must be exhausted.
dickens|Why?
dickens|As often as the driver rested them and brought them to a stand, with a wary Woho!
dickens|Well, well, well!
dickens|He had never heard a sound so sweet and dear as the sound of her compassionate voice; he had never seen a face so tenderly beautiful, as hers when it was confronted with his own on the edge of the grave that had been dug for him.
dickens|She did, indeed, start.
dickens|Biddy looked thoughtfully at it, heard my explanation, looked thoughtfully at my sister, looked thoughtfully at Joe who was always represented on the slate by his initial letter, and ran into the forge, followed by Joe and me.
dickens|What a barber!
dickens|Some were standing; some seated.
dickens|Ah Monsieur heretofore the Marquis, I send my desolate cry across the sea, hoping it may perhaps reach your ears through the great bank of Tilson known at Paris!
dickens|You know me, my dear friend?
austen|Jane she had a distinct glimpse of, looking extremely ill; and, before the door had shut them out, she heard Miss Bates saying, Well, my dear, I shall say you are laid down upon the bed, and I am sure you are ill enough.
dickens|I have no time for them, no chance of them.
austen|NoMrs Knightley;and till she is in being, I will manage such matters myself.
austen|The Netherfield ladies would have had difficulty in believing that a man who lived by trade, and within view of his own warehouses, could have been so wellbred and agreeable.
dickens|A sound of craving and eagerness that had nothing articulate in it but blood.
austen|And then, said she, if that very improbable event should ever take place, I shall merely be able to tell what Bingley may tell in a much more agreeable manner himself.
austen|Miss Bates stood in the very worst predicament in the world for having much of the public favour; and she had no intellectual superiority to make atonement to herself, or frighten those who might hate her into outward respect.
dickens|Let that be!
austen|I am truly glad, dearest Lizzy, that you have been spared something of these distressing scenes; but now, as the first shock is over, shall I own that I long for your return?
dickens|The occupation resumed under the influence of this passing affliction so happily recovered from, said Mr Lorry, clearing his throat, we will callBlacksmiths work, Blacksmiths work.
austen|I have, therefore, made up my mind to tell you, that I do not want to dance a reel at alland now despise me if you dare.
austen|Mr Darcy felt their rudeness, and immediately said  This walk is not wide enough for our party.
dickens|said Carton.
dickens|Says you, Pumblechook went on, Joseph, I have seen that man, and that man bears you no malice and bears me no malice.
austen|When they sat down to supper, therefore, she considered it a most unlucky perverseness which placed them within one of each other; and deeply was she vexed to find that her mother was talking to that one person Lady Lucas freely, openly, and of nothing else but her expectation that Jane would soon be married to Mr Bingley.
austen|oh!
austen|Immediately they crossed the road and came forward to her; and the agreeableness of yesterdays engagement seemed to give fresh pleasure to the present meeting.
dickens|Ernest Defarge, winevendor of St.
dickens|If the green and yellow growth of weed in the chinks of the old wall had been the most precious flowers that ever blew, it could not have been more cherished in my remembrance.
austen|never intended to go there, or to marry Lydia at all, which was repeated to Colonel F.
austen|Mr John Knightley was a tall, gentlemanlike, and very clever man; rising in his profession, domestic, and respectable in his private character; but with reserved manners which prevented his being generally pleasing; and capable of being sometimes out of humour.
dickens|She managed our whole domestic life, and wonderfully too; but I did not mean that, though that made what I did mean more surprising.
dickens|Mr Pip, Ill put on my consideringcap, and I think all you want to do may be done by degrees.
dickens|So, I went out to Walworth again, and yet again, and yet again, and I saw him by appointment in the City several times, but never held any communication with him on the subject in or near Little Britain.
austen|I think every thing has passed off uncommonly well, I assure you.
austen|If she had so misinterpreted his feelings, she had little right to wonder that he, with selfinterest to blind him, should have mistaken hers.
dickens|But he never says a word of the true reason of his restlessness, to her, and she finds it best not to hint at it to him.
dickens|You expected, said Miss Havisham, as she looked them over, no premium with the boy?
dickens|Three of the doors she opened swiftly, and looked in.
austen|Nobody thought of Hannah till you mentioned herJames is so obliged to you!
austen|Miss Bingleys attention was quite as much engaged in watching Mr Darcys progress through his book, as in reading her own; and she was perpetually either making some inquiry, or looking at his page.
austen|His father, Miss Bennet, the late Mr Darcy, was one of the best men that ever breathed, and the truest friend I ever had; and I can never be in company with this Mr Darcy without being grieved to the soul by a thousand tender recollections.
dickens|Miss Havishams intentions towards me, all a mere dream; Estella not designed for me; I only suffered in Satis House as a convenience, a sting for the greedy relations, a model with a mechanical heart to practise on when no other practice was at hand; those were the first smarts I had.
austen|The rooms were lofty and handsome, and their furniture suitable to the fortune of its proprietor; but Elizabeth saw, with admiration of his taste, that it was neither gaudy nor uselessly fine; with less of splendour, and more real elegance, than the furniture of Rosings.
austen|Elizabeth found that nothing was beneath this great ladys attention, which could furnish her with an occasion of dictating to others.
austen|To youth and natural cheerfulness like Emmas, though under temporary gloom at night, the return of day will hardly fail to bring return of spirits.
austen|Mrs Westons partiality for him is very great, and, as you may suppose, most gratifying to me.
austen|Wickham so very bad!
austen|For you are a young lady of deep reflection, I know, and read great books and make extracts.
austen|I like a job of that sort excessively.
dickens|Ah!
austen|In such cases, a woman has not often much beauty to think of.
austen|Me!
dickens|Indeed, when I knew her better I began to think it was a Mercy she had any features at all, so very blank and high was the dead wall of her face.
austen|He had certainly formed such a plan, and without meaning that it should affect his endeavour to separate him from Miss Bennet, it is probable that it might add something to his lively concern for the welfare of his friend.
austen|This was very kind of you to be persuaded to come.
dickens|Sophia has told you, said Mrs Pocket.
dickens|Two.
austen|Emmas tremblings as she asked, and as she listened, were better concealed than Harriets, but they were not less.
austen|Such a disappointment!
austen|She thinks so little of her own beauty.
dickens|She wants this boy to go and play there.
austen|The joke, he replied gravely, seemed confined to you and Mr Churchill.
dickens|When they were alone, Mr Lorry asked him what he had done?
dickens|Looking his companion full in the face while he drank the toast, Carton flung his glass over his shoulder against the wall, where it shivered to pieces; then, rang the bell, and ordered in another.
austen|Emma could look perfectly unconscious and innocent, and answer in a manner that appropriated nothing.
austen|Either because he did not dance himself, or because the plan had been formed without his being consulted, he seemed resolved that it should not interest him, determined against its exciting any present curiosity, or affording him any future amusement.
dickens|I was going to retort with an inquiry, and had got as far as Why  when Joe stopped me.
dickens|Biddy, said I, when I talked with her after dinner, as her little girl lay sleeping in her lap, you must give Pip to me one of these days; or lend him, at all events.
dickens|The forlorn smile with which she said it, so touched him, that tears started from his eyes.
dickens|When he lay down on his straw bed, he thought he had done with this world.
dickens|The last wrist was much disfigured,deeply scarred and scarred across and across.
dickens|When he said, Who giveth this woman to be married to this man?
dickens|M.
dickens|You are the husband, repeated Miss Havisham, of the sister of this boy?
dickens|I told her she was right, and I knew it was much to be regretted, but still it was not to be helped.
austen|But the person who advanced was now near enough to see her, and stepping forward with eagerness, pronounced her name.
austen|But I will promise, she added presently, laughing and blushingI will promise to call you once by your Christian name.
dickens|said I, almost in a frenzy of fear and dislike, I want to speak to you.
dickens|It was the sole resource; for he told me that the case must be over in five minutes when the witness was there, and that no power on earth could prevent its going against us.
austen|I cannot make speeches, Emma he soon resumed; and in a tone of such sincere, decided, intelligible tenderness as was tolerably convincing.
austen|Oh!
dickens|Whatever family opinions, or whatever the worlds opinions, on that subject may be, Pip, your sister is, Joe tapped the top bar with the poker after every word following, afinefigureofawoman!
dickens|Good God!
austen|A very pleasant evening, he began, as soon as Mr Woodhouse had been talked into what was necessary, told that he understood, and the papers swept away;particularly pleasant.
dickens|Monsieur the Marquis, vendor of wine.
austen|He may be sure of every womans approbation while he writes with such gallantry.
austen|You must know that I am thinking of his marrying one of them.
austen|very likely the worthy Coles.
dickens|He gravely touched his lips with his forefinger.
dickens|The Defarges, husband and wife, The Vengeance, and Jacques Three, were in the first press, and at no great distance from him in the Hall.
austen|I shall soon bring him over to Hartfield, said he, at the conclusion.
dickens|That he had no recollection whatever of his having been brought from his prison to that house, was apparent to them.
dickens|And if you ask me to give you, what you never gave me, my gratitude and duty cannot do impossibilities.
dickens|said he, facing round, whats the matter?
austen|She had all the natural grace of sweetness of temper and artlessness in herself.
austen|It was reasonable, however, to hope that they would not continue long.
dickens|Expect to get anything by this evidence?
dickens|A fancy, then, my wise pet, said Mr Lorry, patting her hand.
dickens|Quick!
dickens|It was furnished with fresh young remembrances too, and even at the same moment I fell into much the same confused division of mind between it and the better rooms to which I was going, as I had been in so often between the forge and Miss Havishams, and Biddy and Estella.
dickens|His daughter had one of her hands drawn through his arm, as she sat by him, and the other pressed upon it.
dickens|I lighted on you, Mr Barsad, coming out of the prison of the Conciergerie while I was contemplating the walls, an hour or more ago.
dickens|You spoke of his daughter.
austen|She has now been a longer time stationary there, than she ever was before, and she begins to want change.
austen|This topic was discussed very happily, and others succeeded of similar moment, and passed away with similar harmony; but the evening did not close without a little return of agitation.
dickens|Let us out, you old fox, or Ill get him to bring an action against you for false imprisonment.
dickens|At length, the thing being done, and he having that day entered Clarrikers House, and he having talked to me for a whole evening in a flush of pleasure and success, I did really cry in good earnest when I went to bed, to think that my expectations had done some good to somebody.
dickens|The other world?
dickens|If you couldnt abear yourself  Biddy asked me here, as she sat holding my sisters plate, Have you thought about when youll show yourself to Mr Gargery, and your sister and me?
austen|Good God!
dickens|Herbert, said I, laying my hand upon his knee, I loveI adoreEstella.
dickens|After a while and when it might be prudent, if you should want to slip Tom, Jack, or Richard on board a foreign packetboat, there he isready.
dickens|he answered, with a grave nod, Jaggers knows.
dickens|We dont know what may happen.
austen|While these newlyborn notions were passing in their heads, the perturbation of Elizabeths feelings was at every moment increasing.
austen|You see on what a footing we are.
dickens|When the gaoler was gone, he thought in the same wandering way, Now am I left, as if I were dead.
dickens|Then he fell into such unaccountable fits of meditation, with his fork midway between his plate and his mouth; had his eyes attracted in such strange directions; was afflicted with such remarkable coughs; sat so far from the table, and dropped so much more than he ate, and pretended that he hadnt dropped it; that I was heartily glad when Herbert left us for the City.
dickens|I was returning from France a few days afterwards, and, at Calais, the prisoner came on board the packetship in which I returned, and made the voyage with me.
dickens|Hardly, I think?
austen|We copied it from the Elegant Extracts.
dickens|Why, look at you, dear boy!
austen|Mr Woodhouse hesitated.
austen|You must not be too severe upon yourself, replied Elizabeth.
dickens|Lets look at it.
dickens|On the whole, I by no means recognized the analysis, but thought it not worth disputing.
dickens|Youre a good creetur, he says, dont leave me, whatever you do, and thank you!
austen|It depends entirely upon his aunts spirits and pleasure; in short, upon her temper.
dickens|It induced me to hope that Miss Havisham meant us for one another.
austen|When he was here before, we made the best of it; but there was a good deal of wet, damp, cheerless weather; there always is in February, you know, and we could not do half that we intended.
dickens|No, no you may be sure of that, said Estella.
dickens|Very easily said!
austen|Emma even jumped with surprize;and, horrorstruck, exclaimed,  Jane Fairfax!
austen|That has been a good deal the case, my dear; but not to the degree you mention.
austen|Mr Weston is such a goodhumoured, pleasant, excellent man, that he thoroughly deserves a good wife;and you would not have had Miss Taylor live with us for ever, and bear all my odd humours, when she might have a house of her own?
austen|I am perfectly satisfied, from what his manners now are, that he never had any design of engaging my affection.
dickens|Years afterwards, I made a dreadful likeness of that woman, by causing a face that had no other natural resemblance to it than it derived from flowing hair to pass behind a bowl of flaming spirits in a dark room.
dickens|Nonsense, sir!
dickens|Now, baby darling, come with ma!
dickens|I will, Mr Carton.
dickens|It serves you right, said Wemmick, Get out.
dickens|My heart was deeply and most deservedly humbled as I mused over the fire for an hour or more.
dickens|I aint made Pip a gentleman, and Pip aint a going to make you a gentleman, not fur me not to know whats due to ye both.
austen|She was most forcibly struck.
austen|The anxious cares, the incessant attentions of Mrs Weston, were not thrown away.
dickens|I looked about me, but there appeared to be now no possible escape from the inquiry, HaveIanything to receive, sir?
austen|His attachment to Rosings certainly increases.
austen|Mrs Weston had been speaking to her at the same moment.
austen|I am sure I must have been as white as my gown.
dickens|Yes, dear boy.
austen|Mr and Mrs Collins have a comfortable income, but not such a one as will allow of frequent journeysand I am persuaded my friend would not call herself near her family under less than half the present distance.
dickens|The prisoner was as open in his confidence with mewhich arose out of my helpless situationas he was kind, and good, and useful to my father.
austen|That is what she writes about.
austen|Her regard was receiving strength by invariable praise of him, and her regrets kept alive, and feelings irritated by ceaseless repetitions of Miss Hawkinss happiness, and continual observation of, how much he seemed attached!
dickens|But, by this time she trembled under such strong emotion, and her face expressed such deep anxiety, and, above all, such dread and terror, that Mr Lorry felt it incumbent on him to speak a word or two of reassurance.
dickens|All the devouring and insatiate Monsters imagined since imagination could record itself, are fused in the one realisation, Guillotine.
austen|A new neighbour for us all, Miss Woodhouse!
austen|What do you mean?
dickens|Tonight?
austen|Upon my word, I say no more here than I might say in any house in the neighbourhood, except Netherfield.
dickens|Shes a shaking the shroud at me!
austen|I cannot see that London has any great advantage over the country, for my part, except the shops and public places.
austen|Has he set up his carriage?
dickens|Id never do it again!
austen|With mixed feelings, she seated herself at a little distance from the numbers round the instrument, to listen.
dickens|And a beautiful world we live in, when it is possible, and when many other such things are possible, and not only possible, but donedone, see you!
dickens|He now gave me a rouleau of gold.
austen|There were two nephews of Lady Catherine to require them, for Mr Darcy had brought with him a Colonel Fitzwilliam, the younger son of his uncle Lord , and, to the great surprise of all the party, when Mr Collins returned, the gentlemen accompanied him.
austen|He is the kind of man, indeed, to whom I should never dare refuse anything, which he condescended to ask.
dickens|Standing, as it were, apart with her on the edge of his grave, not all the staring curiosity that looked on, could, for the moment, nerve him to remain quite still.
dickens|No man better known than he, in Paris at that day; no man in a stranger situation.
austen|Did you ever have your likeness taken, Harriet?
austen|Bingley replied that he did, and made his congratulations.
austen|Harriet looked white and frightened, and he was trying to cheer her.
austen|it gives one exactly the idea of such a height as Miss Smiths.
dickens|Ill engage theres no tar in that so, the sergeant thanked him and said that as he preferred his drink without tar, he would take wine, if it was equally convenient.
austen|Compare their manner of carrying themselves; of walking; of speaking; of being silent.
dickens|These fools know nothing.
dickens|Yes, sir.
dickens|After looking at the twilight without, for a little while, she went on to say  The time has come round when Miss Havisham wishes to have me for a day at Satis.
dickens|Arriving at the cathedral some few minutes before her escort, and waiting there, she thought, what if the key were already taken in a net, what if it were identified, what if the door were opened and the remains discovered, what if she were stopped at the gate, sent to prison, and charged with murder!
dickens|If you must go flopping yourself down, flop in favour of your husband and child, and not in opposition to em.
austen|The intention, however, was indubitable; and whether it was that his manners had in general so little gallantry, or however else it happened, but she thought nothing became him more.
dickens|Darkness encompassed them.
dickens|All sorts of traps as Compeyson could set with his head, and keep his own legs out of and get the profits from and let another man in for, was Compeysons business.
austen|He took some music from a chair near the pianoforte, and turning to Emma, said,  Here is something quite new to me.
dickens|I say, stop there.
austen|I thought you clevererfor, depend upon it a lucky guess is never merely luck.
austen|shark is only one syllable.
dickens|What of your husband, the forester?
dickens|Miss Havisham motioning to me for the third or fourth time to sit down, I took the chair by the dressingtable, which I had often seen her occupy.
austen|I am particularly unlucky in meeting with a person so able to expose my real character, in a part of the world where I had hoped to pass myself off with some degree of credit.
austen|she had then been only daring to hope for a little respite of suffering;she was now in an exquisite flutter of happiness, and such happiness moreover as she believed must still be greater when the flutter should have passed away.
dickens|If you have come here to thank me, it was not necessary.
dickens|This was marketday, and Mrs Joe was out on one of these expeditions.
austen|In so large a party it was not necessary that Emma should approach her.
dickens|Will I promise?
dickens|Avoiding the larger rooms, which were dark and made fast for the night, Monsieur the Marquis, with his flambeaubearer going on before, went up the staircase to a door in a corridor.
dickens|Hell have no more on you.
austen|On both sides it was only assertion.
dickens|And I soon found myself getting heavily bumped from behind in the nape of the neck and the small of the back, and having my face ignominiously shoved against the kitchen wall, because I did not answer those questions at sufficient length.
austen|Mr Collins readily assented, and a book was produced; but, on beholding it for everything announced it to be from a circulating library, he started back, and begging pardon, protested that he never read novels.
dickens|Keep as clear of him as you can.
austen|You understand the force of influence pretty well, Harriet; but I would have you so firmly established in good society, as to be independent even of Hartfield and Miss Woodhouse.
dickens|But then youve got to be a scholar.
austen|Mr Knightley had spoken prophetically, when he once said, Emma, you have been no friend to Harriet Smith.
austen|At last she recollected that she had been travelling, and they talked of Matlock and Dove Dale with great perseverance.
austen|These kind of things are very well at Christmas, when one is sitting round the fire; but quite out of place, in my opinion, when one is exploring about the country in summer.
austen|How they were all to be conveyed, he would have made a difficulty if he could, but as his son and daughters carriage and horses were actually at Hartfield, he was not able to make more than a simple question on that head; it hardly amounted to a doubt; nor did it occupy Emma long to convince him that they might in one of the carriages find room for Harriet also.
austen|Fortune I do not want; employment I do not want; consequence I do not want I believe few married women are half as much mistress of their husbands house as I am of Hartfield; and never, never could I expect to be so truly beloved and important; so always first and always right in any mans eyes as I am in my fathers.
dickens|Once, I had been taken to one of our old marsh churches to see a skeleton in the ashes of a rich dress that had been dug out of a vault under the church pavement.
austen|She might do very well by herself.
dickens|However, you have found me out, you says just now.
dickens|What did you make of it, Tom?
austen|Will you allow me, or do I ask too much, to introduce my sister to your acquaintance during your stay at Lambton?
dickens|To which it must be added that every newcomer from France reported himself and his tidings at Tellsons, almost as a matter of course.
dickens|Then, they elevated into the vacant chair a young woman from the crowd to be carried as the Goddess of Liberty, and then swelling and overflowing out into the adjacent streets, and along the rivers bank, and over the bridge, the Carmagnole absorbed them every one and whirled them away.
dickens|Oh!
dickens|Reluctantly, I confessed myself quite unable to answer the question.
dickens|Defarge raised his head thoughtfully, as if there were something in that too.
dickens|As we approached the point, I begged him to remain in a sheltered place, while I went on to reconnoitre; for it was towards it that the men had passed in the night.
dickens|Well!
dickens|I am English!
dickens|He was puzzled what to do; not the less, because I gave him my opinion that it was not safe to try to get Tom, Jack, or Richard too far out of the way at present.
dickens|The early dinner hour at Joes, left me abundance of time, without hurrying my talk with Biddy, to walk over to the old spot before dark.
austen|I remember it perfectly.
austen|and John, how are you?
dickens|He was coming round a narrow corner.
austen|Have you indeed, sir?
dickens|All this made the feast delightful, and when the waiter was not there to watch me, my pleasure was without alloy.
austen|I reached Highbury at the time of day when, from my knowledge of their late breakfast hour, I was certain of a good chance of finding her alone.
dickens|She stood looking at me, and, of course, I stood looking at her.
dickens|The arrival of the body for interment in an empty black box with the lid tumbling open, was the signal for a general joy, which was much enhanced by the discovery, among the bearers, of an individual obnoxious to identification.
austen|cried Elizabeth when she had finished it.
austen|Mr Elton knows you.
austen|She owed her greatest relief to her friend Miss Lucas, who often joined them, and goodnaturedly engaged Mr Collinss conversation to herself.
austen|You have now done your duty by her, and must fret no longer.
austen|While in their cradles, we planned the union and now, at the moment when the wishes of both sisters would be accomplished in their marriage, to be prevented by a young woman of inferior birth, of no importance in the world, and wholly unallied to the family!
austen|How is Mr Woodhouse?
austen|But Miss Bates soon cameVery happy and obligedbut Emmas conscience told her that there was not the same cheerful volubility as beforeless ease of look and manner.
austen|She was aware herself, that, parting under any other circumstances, they certainly should have corresponded more, and that her intelligence would not have rested, as it now almost wholly did, on Isabellas letters.
austen|Ladies and gentlemenI am ordered by Miss Woodhouse to say, that she waives her right of knowing exactly what you may all be thinking of, and only requires something very entertaining from each of you, in a general way.
dickens|No motives but motives of sheer patriotism?
austen|Say nothing, my dear Emma, while you oblige me to readnot even of Mrs Elton.
dickens|There was no discrepancy of years between us to remove her far from me; we were of nearly the same age, though of course the age told for more in her case than in mine; but the air of inaccessibility which her beauty and her manner gave her, tormented me in the midst of my delight, and at the height of the assurance I felt that our patroness had chosen us for one another.
dickens|I am not crying, said Miss Pross; you are.
dickens|I said.
dickens|Are they alive now?
dickens|had put in a funereal execution and taken possession.
dickens|I know that what is said between you and me goes no further.
austen|How much you must have gone through!
austen|Before the end of September, Emma attended Harriet to church, and saw her hand bestowed on Robert Martin with so complete a satisfaction, as no remembrances, even connected with Mr Elton as he stood before them, could impair.
dickens|Well!
dickens|The village looks at him by stealth, for it is afraid.
austen|which instantly burst forth, had all the evidence of corresponding perturbation.
dickens|I did.
austen|She saw all the glories of the campits tents stretched forth in beauteous uniformity of lines, crowded with the young and the gay, and dazzling with scarlet; and, to complete the view, she saw herself seated beneath a tent, tenderly flirting with at least six officers at once.
dickens|Induced to take particular notice of the housekeeper, both by her own striking appearance and by Wemmicks preparation, I observed that whenever she was in the room she kept her eyes attentively on my guardian, and that she would remove her hands from any dish she put before him, hesitatingly, as if she dreaded his calling her back, and wanted him to speak when she was nigh, if he had anything to say.
austen|Her resistance had not injured her with the gentleman, and he was thinking of her with some complacency, when thus accosted by Miss Bingley  I can guess the subject of your reverie.
dickens|Far and wide lay a ruined country, yielding nothing but desolation.
dickens|When I had begun to advance Herberts prospects by stealth, I had been able to bear this with cheerful philosophy he and his affianced, for their part, had naturally not been very anxious to introduce a third person into their interviews; and thus, although I was assured that I had risen in Claras esteem, and although the young lady and I had long regularly interchanged messages and remembrances by Herbert, I had never seen her.
dickens|Which time?
austen|The information was, as you state, that he was going to be married to a Miss Hawkins.
dickens|Given to government, said Joe.
austen|Mr Knightley had another reason for avoiding a table in the shade.
austen|In ten minutes, however, the child had been perfectly well again.
dickens|When have you found me false to your teaching?
dickens|Some and their uptowning!
dickens|Which this to you the true friend say.
austen|There was too much domestic happiness in his brothers house; woman wore too amiable a form in it; Isabella was too much like Emmadiffering only in those striking inferiorities, which always brought the other in brilliancy before him, for much to have been done, even had his time been longer.
dickens|You are bound to say of where.
dickens|Defarge went back to the counter, and said, Certainly, a little like.
dickens|Made curious by seeing you in that connection, and having a reason, to which you are no stranger, for associating you with the misfortunes of a friend now very unfortunate, I walked in your direction.
austen|We have been calling at Randalls, said she, and found them both at home; and very pleasant people they seem to be.
dickens|Oncommon.
austen|He merely added that he should not write again till he had something of importance to mention.
dickens|But, the time was not come yet; and every wind that blew over France shook the rags of the scarecrows in vain, for the birds, fine of song and feather, took no warning.
dickens|In the evening, at which season of all others Saint Antoine turned himself inside out, and sat on doorsteps and windowledges, and came to the corners of vile streets and courts, for a breath of air, Madame Defarge with her work in her hand was accustomed to pass from place to place and from group to group a Missionarythere were many like hersuch as the world will do well never to breed again.
austen|Come on a donkey, however, if you prefer it.
dickens|It is a similar certificate, enabling him and his daughter and her child, at any time, to pass the barrier and the frontier!
austen|Accordingly, with a mixture of the serious and the playful, which she hoped would best suit his half and half state, she replied,  I am very much astonished, Mr Elton.
austen|We want none of them; do we?
austen|Mrs Bennet and Kitty walked off, and as soon as they were gone, Mr Collins began.
dickens|his wife implored.
dickens|But I thought they seemed to think it rather a good idea too.
dickens|Presently we saw other torches kindled at some distance behind us, and others on the marshes on the opposite bank of the river.
austen|repeated Frank Churchill, with a look of surprize and displeasure.
dickens|You have been in every line I have ever read since I first came here, the rough common boy whose poor heart you wounded even then.
dickens|These words are formed by the rusty iron point with which I write with difficulty in scrapings of soot and charcoal from the chimney, mixed with blood, in the last month of the tenth year of my captivity.
dickens|He had returned when he did, on the pressing and written entreaty of a French citizen, who represented that his life was endangered by his absence.
dickens|He will be judged at Paris.
austen|You wanted me, I know, to say Yes, that you might have the pleasure of despising my taste; but I always delight in overthrowing those kind of schemes, and cheating a person of their premeditated contempt.
austen|He has been so unlucky as to lose your friendship, replied Elizabeth with emphasis, and in a manner which he is likely to suffer from all his life.
dickens|What have you been, besides a messenger?
dickens|The burst with which the carriage started out of the village and up the rise beyond, was soon checked by the steepness of the hill.
austen|She would not have been puzzled, had she dared fix on them.
dickens|Looking round as I resumed my seat, I found both the brothers intent upon me.
dickens|It happened so to catch her fancy that she took it up in a low brooding voice as if she were singing in her sleep.
austen|Good Heavens!
austen|Will not the old prejudice be too strong?
austen|It was a painful, but not an improbable, conjecture.
dickens|I forgot myself half a minute ago.
dickens|Mr Drummle, upon this, starting up, demanded what I meant by that?
austen|These matters are always a secret, till it is found out that every body knows them.
dickens|I will be submissive to you.
dickens|I am like one who died young.
dickens|And when the verdict come, warnt it Compeyson as was recommended to mercy on account of good character and bad company, and giving up all the information he could agen me, and warnt it me as got never a word but Guilty?
austen|But when the gentlemen entered, Jane was no longer the first object; Miss Bingleys eyes were instantly turned toward Darcy, and she had something to say to him before he had advanced many steps.
austen|I was so vexed to see him stand up with her!
austen|And it was settled that we should all be there by eleven oclock.
dickens|said Stryver; how do I do what I do?
austen|For the truth of everything here related, I can appeal more particularly to the testimony of Colonel Fitzwilliam, who, from our near relationship and constant intimacy, and, still more, as one of the executors of my fathers will, has been unavoidably acquainted with every particular of these transactions.
austen|But I kept my eye on it; and, as soon as I dared, caught it up, and never parted with it again from that moment.
dickens|Madame Defarge, surely!
austen|Which makes his good manners the more valuable.
dickens|In both countries it was clearer than crystal to the lords of the State preserves of loaves and fishes, that things in general were settled for ever.
austen|Did you see him while you were at Lambton?
dickens|If he needed a King and Queen to restore him, he was fortunate in having his remedy at hand; for, soon the largefaced King and the fairfaced Queen came in their golden coach, attended by the shining Bulls Eye of their Court, a glittering multitude of laughing ladies and fine lords; and in jewels and silks and powder and splendour and elegantly spurning figures and handsomely disdainful faces of both sexes, the mender of roads bathed himself, so much to his temporary intoxication, that he cried Long live the King, Long live the Queen, Long live everybody and everything!
dickens|Anything else?
austen|I thought I should have died.
austen|Miss Fairfax, you must not run such risks.
austen|I am sorry there should be any thing like doubt in the case, replied Emma; but am disposed to side with you, Mr Weston.
austen|Yes, you were very cross; and I do not know what about, except that you were too late for the best strawberries.
dickens|And if he asked me why I wanted it, and why I thought I had any right to it, I would tell him, little as he cared for such poor dreams, that I had loved Estella dearly and long, and that although I had lost her, and must live a bereaved life, whatever concerned her was still nearer and dearer to me than anything else in the world.
austen|You look as if you would not do such a thing again.
dickens|said I.
dickens|I was startled, for I had some shadowy idea and I am afraid I must add, hope that Joe had divorced her in a favor of the Lords of the Admiralty, or Treasury.
austen|No thanks to his gallantry for that.
austen|Nobody but yourself could imagine such a thing possible.
dickens|I had said to Compeyson that Id smash that face of his, and I swore Lord smash mine!
dickens|I should have been chary of discussing my guardian too freely even with her; but I should have gone on with the subject so far as to describe the dinner in Gerrard Street, if we had not then come into a sudden glare of gas.
austen|Vigorous, decided, with sentiments to a certain point, not coarse.
dickens|Darnay complied, and was taken back to the guardhouse, where other patriots in rough red caps were smoking, drinking, and sleeping, by a watchfire.
dickens|And yet I cannot, said Mr Pumblechook, getting up again, see afore me Oneand likewise drink to Onewithout again expressingMay Imay I?
austen|My report from Mrs Goddards, said she presently, was not so pleasant as I had hopedNot better was my answer.
dickens|He had his slippers on, and a loose bedgown, and his throat was bare for his greater ease.
dickens|Imperative mood, present tense Do not thou go home, let him not go home, let us not go home, do not ye or you go home, let not them go home.
dickens|I know that when she is clinging to you, the hands of baby, girl, and woman, all in one, are round your neck.
dickens|At length, a person better informed on the merits of the case, tumbled against him, and from this person he learned that the funeral was the funeral of one Roger Cly.
austen|He was gone immediately; and Emma soon saw him standing before Miss Fairfax, and talking to her; but as to its effect on the young lady, as he had improvidently placed himself exactly between them, exactly in front of Miss Fairfax, she could absolutely distinguish nothing.
austen|Lydias going to Brighton was all that consoled her for her melancholy conviction of her husbands never intending to go there himself.
austen|The consequence, said she, has been a state of perpetual suffering to me; and so it ought.
dickens|Now!
dickens|Startop, being a lively, bright young fellow, and Drummle being the exact opposite, the latter was always disposed to resent him as a direct personal affront.
dickens|I laid down my pen, and Biddy stopped in her needlework without laying it down.
dickens|Then again I am heavily in debt,very heavily for me, who have now no expectations,and I have been bred to no calling, and I am fit for nothing.
dickens|And he smeared his ragged rough sleeve over his eyes.
dickens|Its the wisest thing to expect, and the likeliest.
austen|Mr Knightley was at Hartfield yesterday, and spoke of it as for Saturday.
austen|Such amiable qualities must speak for themselves.
austen|You ought certainly to forgive them, as a Christian, but never to admit them in your sight, or allow their names to be mentioned in your hearing.
austen|He was not exactly what she had expected; less of the man of the world in some of his notions, less of the spoiled child of fortune, therefore better than she had expected.
dickens|They began to descend; Monsieur Defarge going first with the lamp, Mr Lorry closing the little procession.
austen|Something very much to the purpose of course.
dickens|demanded a resolutelooking man in authority, who was summoned out by the guard.
dickens|I wonder whos put into prisonships, and why theyre put there?
austen|You think so, do not you?
austen|You left nothing undone.
dickens|A lifethirsting, canniballooking, bloodyminded juryman, the Jacques Three of St.
austen|Robert Martin has no great lossif he can but think so; and I hope it will not be long before he does.
dickens|What a night it has been!
dickens|I thought he was gone, when he came back, calling for a light for the cigar in his mouth, which he had forgotten.
austen|There was no want of discourse.
dickens|Is that far?
dickens|Is there any noise in the streets now?
dickens|If we all did what we undertake to do, as faithfully as Herbert did, we might live in a Republic of the Virtues.
dickens|Has the boy, said Miss Havisham, ever made any objection?
dickens|It had a quieter look than any other place of the same description they had passed, and, though red with patriotic caps, was not so red as the rest.
dickens|Yes, citizen.
austen|It is a proof of your own attachment to Hertfordshire.
dickens|I remember it very well.
austen|She was disgustingly, was suspiciously reserved.
dickens|In his heat and triumph, and in his knowledge that I had been nearly fainting, he did not remark on my reception of all this.
austen|The possibility of the young mans coming to Mrs Goddards that morning, and meeting with Harriet and pleading his own cause, gave alarming ideas.
austen|Rousing from reflection, therefore, and subduing her emotion, she turned to Harriet again, and, in a more inviting accent, renewed the conversation; for as to the subject which had first introduced it, the wonderful story of Jane Fairfax, that was quite sunk and lost.
dickens|she asked, settling her hands upon her stick, that she might regard me the more attentively.
dickens|It was much upon my mind particularly when I first saw him looking about for his file that I ought to tell Joe the whole truth.
dickens|inquired Mr Lorry, seeing that she moved as they moved.
dickens|Astonishing!
dickens|Dont straggle, my man.
dickens|Turn my face to him.
dickens|asked the stranger.
austen|how dye do?
austen|But John, as to what I was telling you of my idea of moving the path to Langham, of turning it more to the right that it may not cut through the home meadows, I cannot conceive any difficulty.
austen|Your marrying will be equal to the match at Randalls.
austen|Your views for Harriet are best known to yourself; but as you make no secret of your love of matchmaking, it is fair to suppose that views, and plans, and projects you have;and as a friend I shall just hint to you that if Elton is the man, I think it will be all labour in vain.
austen|He felt the disappointment of the young man, and was mortified to have been the means of promoting it, by the sanction he had given; and the part which he was persuaded Emma had taken in the affair, was provoking him exceedingly.
austen|But she is very young; she has never been taught to think on serious subjects; and for the last halfyear, nay, for a twelvemonthshe has been given up to nothing but amusement and vanity.
dickens|Come here!
austen|Mrs Dixon has persuaded her father and mother to come over and see her directly.
austen|Quite a surprize to me!
dickens|One of the little girls, a mere mite who seemed to have prematurely taken upon herself some charge of the others, stepped out of her place by me, and danced to and from the baby until it left off crying, and laughed.
austen|My dear Jane, I am in such a flutter, that I am sure I cant write; so I will dictate, and you write for me.
austen|As it happened that Elizabeth had much rather not, she endeavoured in her answer to put an end to every entreaty and expectation of the kind.
dickens|The prisoner walked to and fro in his cell, counting its measurement, and the roar of the city arose like muffled drums with a wild swell of voices added to them.
dickens|Just as I am getting on!
dickens|If you come to advancing you know, said Mr Lorry, delighted to be able to make another admission, nobody can doubt that.
dickens|To which the Aged replied with great briskness, before saying that he gave, All right, John, all right, my boy!
dickens|I must put something into my stomach, mustnt I?
dickens|I am afraid I must say yes, sir.
dickens|Their decease made no impression on the other flies out promenading, who looked at them in the coolest manner as if they themselves were elephants, or something as far removed, until they met the same fate.
dickens|I would not keep it, said Mr Lorry, shaking his head; for he gained in firmness as he saw the Doctor disquieted.
dickens|His property.
dickens|Well, said Joe, still harping on it as though I had particularly pressed it, if I was yourself, Pip, I wouldnt.
dickens|Oh!
dickens|The mender of roads, and the two hundred and fifty particular friends, inspired as one man and woman by the idea of lighting up, had darted into their houses, and were putting candles in every dull little pane of glass.
austen|But I hope there is no strong attachment on either side, said Jane.
austen|Sir William only smiled.
dickens|It was a raw evening, and the misty river, blurred to the eye with blazing lights and to the ear with harsh noises, showed where the barges were stationed in which the smiths worked, making guns for the Army of the Republic.
austen|It would only be giving trouble and distress.
dickens|Eighteen years!
dickens|I am not a going fur to tell you my life like a song, or a storybook.
dickens|returned Estella.
dickens|cried Mr Lorry, breathless and confused.
dickens|It is yes, Jerry.
dickens|Within this space, he now slouched backwards and forwards.
austen|But she would not be secure.
dickens|No, Pip, Joe assented, as if he had been contending for that, all along; and what I say to you is, you are right, Pip.
austen|In every view it is unaccountable!
dickens|Half a quarter of a moment!
dickens|He told me that he would look about him for such an orphan child.
dickens|!
dickens|Work, comrades all, work!
dickens|Dont you mind talking, Pip, said he, after again drawing his sleeve over his eyes and forehead, as the click came in his throat which I well remembered,and he was all the more horrible to me that he was so much in earnest; you cant do better nor keep quiet, dear boy.
austen|It soothed, but it could not console her for the contempt which had thus been selfattracted by the rest of her family; and as she considered that Janes disappointment had in fact been the work of her nearest relations, and reflected how materially the credit of both must be hurt by such impropriety of conduct, she felt depressed beyond anything she had ever known before.
dickens|One more pull and youre at the top and be damned to you, for I have had trouble enough to get you to it!
dickens|The other fugitive, who was evidently in extreme horror of his companion, repeated, He tried to murder me.
austen|Pray do not let them talk of it.
austen|Mr Knightley might quarrel with her, but Emma could not quarrel with herself.
austen|Mrs Westonit is too calm a censure.
dickens|I do not want it examined, he answered; let it be.
austen|I have the greatest pleasure, my dear Emma, in forwarding to you the enclosed.
austen|You never see a fault in anybody.
dickens|Dont be a moment behind them, for I want you to take the verdict back to the bank.
dickens|I should hardly have thought this was your beat.
austen|and if my uncle and aunt go to town this springbut I am afraidthey did not stir last springI am afraid it is a custom gone for ever.
dickens|We shall lose a fine opportunity if I put off going to Cairo, and I am very much afraid I must go, Handel, when you most need me.
dickens|Wery good, then, said Joe, as if I had answered; thats all right; thats agreed upon.
dickens|That, Mr Lorry, said Mr Cruncher, wiping his forehead with his arm, as an announcement that he had arrived at the peroration of his discourse, is wot I would respectfully offer to you, sir.
dickens|Mr Jaggers never laughed; but he wore great bright creaking boots, and, in poising himself on these boots, with his large head bent down and his eyebrows joined together, awaiting an answer, he sometimes caused the boots to creak, as if they laughed in a dry and suspicious way.
dickens|At length it had come into my head that the sign looked like a hammer, and on my lustily calling that word in my sisters ear, she had begun to hammer on the table and had expressed a qualified assent.
austen|But still, not near enough to give me a chance of being right, if we think differently.
dickens|It had not lasted a minute, when he nodded and went out.
dickens|It had dropped into a watchful and brooding expression,most likely when all the things about her had become transfixed,and it looked as if nothing could ever lift it up again.
austen|Between Elizabeth and Charlotte there was a restraint which kept them mutually silent on the subject; and Elizabeth felt persuaded that no real confidence could ever subsist between them again.
dickens|But there was a calm, a rest, a virtuous hush, consequent on these examinations of our affairs that gave me, for the time, an admirable opinion of myself.
austen|And they must marry!
dickens|Betrothed.
dickens|We agreed that it should be carried into execution, and that Provis should never recognize us if we came below Bridge, and rowed past Mill Pond Bank.
austen|No man of common humanity, no man who had any value for his character, could be capable of it.
austen|Certainly, delicate ladies have very extraordinary constitutions, Mrs Elton.
dickens|moaned Miss Havisham.
dickens|If I had known what I was coming to see, I could have come provided.
austen|no, indeed; I must protest against any such idea.
austen|It suddenly struck her that it might be from Lady Catherine; and she anticipated with dismay all the consequent explanations.
austen|You are speaking of letters of business; mine are letters of friendship.
dickens|Thus it was, however; and the last drop of blood having been extracted from the flints, and the last screw of the rack having been turned so often that its purchase crumbled, and it now turned and turned with nothing to bite, Monseigneur began to run away from a phenomenon so low and unaccountable.
dickens|You always waits at the gate; dont you, dear boy?
austen|Isabella cannot bear to stay behind her husband.
austen|But on the other hand, as Emma wants to see her better informed, it will be an inducement to her to read more herself.
dickens|I should have hoped, gentlemen both, said the spy, always striving to hook Mr Lorry into the discussion, that your respect for my sister  I could not better testify my respect for your sister than by finally relieving her of her brother, said Sydney Carton.
dickens|For, after I had made the monster out of the refuse of my washerwomans family, and had clothed him with a blue coat, canary waistcoat, white cravat, creamy breeches, and the boots already mentioned, I had to find him a little to do and a great deal to eat; and with both of those horrible requirements he haunted my existence.
dickens|Very little.
dickens|At it again?
austen|She is a woman that one may, that one must laugh at; but that one would not wish to slight.
austen|Emma wished she could have seen her, and tried her own powers; but, almost before she could hint the wish, Miss Bates made it appear that she had promised her niece on no account to let Miss Woodhouse in.
dickens|But did you say told or informed?
dickens|said Mr Jaggers, looking shrewdly at me, and then shutting up his eyes while he waited for my answer.
dickens|The hours went on as he walked to and fro, and the clocks struck the numbers he would never hear again.
austen|Mr Elton seemed very properly struck and delighted by the idea, and was repeating, No husbands and wives in the case at present indeed, as you observe.
dickens|It is safe enough for me; nobody will care to interfere with an old fellow of hard upon fourscore when there are so many people there much better worth interfering with.
dickens|So he says?
dickens|And still I stood looking at the house, thinking how happy I should be if I lived there with her, and knowing that I never was happy with her, but always miserable.
dickens|A memorable storm of thunder and lightning broke with that sweep of water, and there was not a moments interval in crash, and fire, and rain, until after the moon rose at midnight.
austen|But there was much to be talked of in marrying her; and the goodnatured wishes for her welldoing which had proceeded before from all the spiteful old ladies in Meryton lost but a little of their spirit in this change of circumstances, because with such an husband her misery was considered certain.
dickens|But, the question reminded him of his work, and he bent over it again.
austen|Do not you begin to feel that now?
dickens|I taught myself.
dickens|Should you, Pip?
dickens|It had not occurred to me before, that he had led up to the theme for the purpose of clearing it out of our way; but we were so much the lighter and easier for having broached it, that I now perceived this to be the case.
dickens|I know perfectly well that if you had been restored to her from the world beyond this life, you could hardly be invested, in her sight, with a more sacred character than that in which you are always with her.
austen|She felt that she had no business at Pemberley, and was obliged to assume a disinclination for seeing it.
dickens|Oh!
austen|They are my old friends.
dickens|It was high noontide, when two dusty men passed through his streets and under his swinging lamps of whom, one was Monsieur Defarge the other a mender of roads in a blue cap.
austen|I can suppose, however, that I may have underrated him.
dickens|Must they!
dickens|The Vengeance stooped, and the jar of a drum was heard as she moved it at her feet behind the counter.
dickens|Which FarmerGeneral, carrying an appropriate cane with a golden apple on the top of it, was now among the company in the outer rooms, much prostrated before by mankindalways excepting superior mankind of the blood of Monseigneur, who, his own wife included, looked down upon him with the loftiest contempt.
austen|Are not you curious to hear how it was managed?
austen|Nothing could be pleasanter.
dickens|Workmen dig, workmen hammer, soldiers laugh and sing; in the morning, by the fountain, there is raised a gallows forty feet high, poisoning the water.
austen|Very true, my dear, that is exactly what I say.
dickens|But it has lasted a long time, and it is possibleyou know well, my wife, it is possiblethat it may not come, during our lives.
dickens|They kept me very quiet all day, and kept my arm constantly dressed, and gave me cooling drinks.
austen|I am sorry for her, because, with her disposition, she may not get over it immediately.
austen|But that expression of violently in love is so hackneyed, so doubtful, so indefinite, that it gives me very little idea.
dickens|It would seem like flight, my darling.
dickens|Old Orlick knowed you was burnt, Old Orlick knowed you was smuggling your uncle Provis away, Old Orlicks a match for you and knowd youd come tonight!
austen|I am extremely glad that you have such pleasant accounts from our friends at Hunsford.
dickens|You see how composed he has become, and you cannot be afraid to leave him with me now.
dickens|Still in that attitude he said, with a hollow voice, Good night, Mr Pip, when I deemed it advisable to go to bed and leave him.
dickens|From the Palace of the Tuileries, through Monseigneur and the whole Court, through the Chambers, the Tribunals of Justice, and all society except the scarecrows, the Fancy Ball descended to the Common Executioner who, in pursuance of the charm, was required to officiate frizzled, powdered, in a goldlaced coat, pumps, and white silk stockings.
dickens|Lord bless you, I have heard him, a hundred times, if I have heard him once, say to regular cracksmen in our front office, You know where I live; now, no bolt is ever drawn there; why dont you do a stroke of business with me?
dickens|Partly through paying me to help you, I suppose.
dickens|A gate in the fence standing ajar, I pushed it open, and went in.
dickens|She?
dickens|Here, he skipped from his left leg on to his right.
dickens|Then, she gave the knife a final smart wipe on the edge of the plaster, and then sawed a very thick round off the loaf which she finally, before separating from the loaf, hewed into two halves, of which Joe got one, and I the other.
dickens|I see one thing, said Carton.
austen|Little Henry must remain the heir of Donwell.
dickens|A great woman, said he, a strong woman, a grand woman, a frightfully grand woman!
austen|Besides, she is out of health now; but that indeed, by her own account, she has always been.
austen|I assure you she did.
austen|Whatever you say is always right, cried Harriet, and therefore I suppose, and believe, and hope it must be so; but otherwise I could not have imagined it.
austen|Her sister, however, assured her of her being perfectly well; and their conversation, which had been passing while Mr and Mrs Gardiner were engaged with their children, was now put an end to by the approach of the whole party.
dickens|Yes.
dickens|After what you let out the other day, Mr Jaggers may as well not know of it.
dickens|I entreat you to observe that I have come here voluntarily, in response to that written appeal of a fellowcountryman which lies before you.
austen|Besides the Eltons, it must be the Westons and Mr Knightley; so far it was all of courseand it was hardly less inevitable that poor little Harriet must be asked to make the eighthbut this invitation was not given with equal satisfaction, and on many accounts Emma was particularly pleased by Harriets begging to be allowed to decline it.
austen|Do not let any reflection fall on the principles or the care of the friends who brought me up.
austen|However, I did not hear above one word in ten, for I was thinking, you may suppose, of my dear Wickham.
dickens|To confess the truth, I very heartily wished, and not for the first time, that I had had some other guardian of minor abilities.
dickens|Something came into my head which induced me to run after him, as he was going down to the Jolly Bargemen, where he had left a hired carriage.
austen|So do I, said Mrs Weston gently, very much.
austen|How wonderfully these sort of things occur!
austen|And he was really a very pleasing young man, a young man whom any woman not fastidious might like.
dickens|Ill tell you, Mr Pip.
dickens|Even I myself began to know the want of money I mean of ready money in my own pocket, and to relieve it by converting some easily spared articles of jewelery into cash.
austen|Lydia came to us; and Wickham had constant admission to the house.
dickens|East, West, North, and South, through the woods, four heavytreading, unkempt figures crushed the high grass and cracked the branches, striding on cautiously to come together in the courtyard.
dickens|There it is!
austen|But, Mr Knightley, she is really very sorry to lose poor Miss Taylor, and I am sure she will miss her more than she thinks for.
dickens|He left escort and escorted without saying a word, however, and went into the guardroom; meanwhile, they sat upon their horses outside the gate.
austen|Ah!
dickens|I have seen her image in the moonlight often, as I now see you; except that I never held her in my arms; it stood between the little grated window and the door.
dickens|He cant be in sight, said Mr Wopsle.
dickens|I asked, determined not to yield an inch of the fire.
dickens|assented Miss Sarah Pocket.
austen|Mr Westons sanguine temper was a blessing on all his upright and honourable exertions; but Mr Weston earned every present comfort before he endeavoured to gain it.
dickens|The accused explained that the citizen was his first witness.
dickens|Now, what do you make of four times five?
austen|On his side were the inquiries,Was she a horsewoman?
dickens|Other sound than the owls voice there was none, save the falling of a fountain into its stone basin; for, it was one of those dark nights that hold their breath by the hour together, and then heave a long low sigh, and hold their breath again.
austen|It is infinitely too bad.
dickens|Having thought of the matter with care, I approached my subject as if I had never hinted at it before.
dickens|I am!
dickens|As there seemed to be a tacit understanding that the Aged was not in a presentable state, and was therefore to be considered invisible, I made a pretence of being in complete ignorance of these proceedings.
austen|That she was really ill was very certain; he had declared himself convinced of it, at Randalls.
austen|She hardly knew how to suppose that she could be an object of admiration to so great a man; and yet that he should look at her because he disliked her, was still more strange.
dickens|An incidental allusion, purposely thrown out, to the day of the week, and the day of the month, set him thinking and counting, and evidently made him uneasy.
dickens|While his learned friend, Mr Stryver, massing his papers before him, whispered with those who sat near, and from time to time glanced anxiously at the jury; while all the spectators moved more or less, and grouped themselves anew; while even my Lord himself arose from his seat, and slowly paced up and down his platform, not unattended by a suspicion in the minds of the audience that his state was feverish; this one man sat leaning back, with his torn gown half off him, his untidy wig put on just as it had happened to light on his head after its removal, his hands in his pockets, and his eyes on the ceiling as they had been all day.
dickens|About two leagues beyond the summit of that hill above the village.
austen|He drew a chair near her.
dickens|The House itself, magnificently reading the paper quite in the faroff perspective, lowered displeased, as if the Stryver head had been butted into its responsible waistcoat.
dickens|Perhaps the latter possibility may be the nearer to the truth.
austen|What a contrast between him and his friend!
dickens|When he was not asleep, or playing a complicated kind of Patience with a ragged pack of cards of his own,a game that I never saw before or since, and in which he recorded his winnings by sticking his jackknife into the table,when he was not engaged in either of these pursuits, he would ask me to read to him,Foreign language, dear boy!
austen|Yes, so I imagined.
dickens|Wemmick drank a glass of wine, and looked with a grimly satisfied air at Mr Jaggers, but not at me.
dickens|He read with young men who could find any leisure and interest for the study of a living tongue spoken all over the world, and he cultivated a taste for its stores of knowledge and fancy.
dickens|In what station of life is this man?
dickens|I cried, as he too bent over me.
dickens|The person stopped, when he stopped to make inquiry of me, and the person took this way when he took this way.
dickens|Look into your affairs.
austen|repeated Miss Bingley.
dickens|He ate in a ravenous way that was very disagreeable, and all his actions were uncouth, noisy, and greedy.
austen|But such as they were, it may well be supposed how eagerly she went through them, and what a contrariety of emotion they excited.
dickens|Not of Beauvais?
dickens|I indicated in what direction the mist had shrouded the other man, and he looked up at it for an instant.
dickens|I will, said I.
dickens|I see her father, aged and bent, but otherwise restored, and faithful to all men in his healing office, and at peace.
austen|It was evident that she was much better acquainted with Mr Darcy than they had before any idea of; it was evident that he was very much in love with her.
dickens|It was nothing to her, that an innocent man was to die for the sins of his forefathers; she saw, not him, but them.
dickens|No; she was acquitted.
dickens|repeated Defarge, bitterly.
austen|Mr Weston is really as kind as herself.
austen|Mr Weston do not trifle with me.
austen|Oh!
dickens|Estella was always about, and always let me in and out, but never told me I might kiss her again.
austen|She felt it at her heart.
austen|I had not thought of Mrs Dixon.
dickens|After darkly looking at his leg and me several times, he came closer to my tombstone, took me by both arms, and tilted me back as far as he could hold me; so that his eyes looked most powerfully down into mine, and mine looked most helplessly up into his.
austen|Poor dear child!
dickens|They were these.
dickens|Joe and I being fellowsufferers, and having confidences as such, Joe imparted a confidence to me, the moment I raised the latch of the door and peeped in at him opposite to it, sitting in the chimney corner.
dickens|I thought this pretty well in him who had been praising up the pork for being so plump and juicy.
dickens|While he was gone, I sat down on my usual stool and looked vacantly at my sister, feeling pretty sure that the man would not be there.
austen|Now for it.
austen|Oh!
dickens|Heres the undertaker a coming, to see how youre a getting on with your work!
dickens|He stopped.
dickens|As my beloved child was helpful in restoring me to myself, I will be helpful now in restoring the dearest part of herself to her; by the aid of Heaven I will do it!
dickens|If he could have known how nearly the compliment lost him his pupil, I doubt if he would have paid it.
austen|With all my heart.
austen|You are all to come to Pemberley at Christmas.
dickens|For his daughters sake, my dear Manette!
austen|The ladies were all at home.
austen|The power of doing anything with quickness is always prized much by the possessor, and often without any attention to the imperfection of the performance.
austen|so handsome!
austen|I was reading it to Mrs Cole, and since she went away, I was reading it again to my mother, for it is such a pleasure to hera letter from Janethat she can never hear it often enough; so I knew it could not be far off, and here it is, only just under my huswifeand since you are so kind as to wish to hear what she says;but, first of all, I really must, in justice to Jane, apologise for her writing so short a letteronly two pages you seehardly twoand in general she fills the whole paper and crosses half.
dickens|I lighted my fire, which burnt with a raw pale flare at that time of the morning, and fell into a doze before it.
dickens|asked his decent wife, when he took another bite.
dickens|John.
austen|Dear madam, cried Mrs Hill, in great astonishment, dont you know there is an express come for master from Mr Gardiner?
dickens|Drop it then, said Mr Cruncher; I wont have none of your no harms.
dickens|See here then, Monsieur the Officer, said Defarge, getting down, and taking him gravely apart, these are the papers of monsieur inside, with the white head.
austen|They met Mr Martin the very next day, as they were walking on the Donwell road.
austen|Did not I tell you what he said of you the other day?
austen|Should she proceed no farther?
dickens|said he, young fellow!
austen|Harriets sweet easy temper will not mind it.
austen|cried Elizabeth.
austen|Perhaps you think I am come on purpose to quarrel with you, knowing Weston to be out, and that you must still fight your own battle.
austen|cried his wife.
dickens|It is a thing to thank God for; is it not?
dickens|Our friend the Spider, said Mr Jaggers, has played his cards.
austen|The vague and unsettled suspicions which uncertainty had produced of what Mr Darcy might have been doing to forward her sisters match, which she had feared to encourage as an exertion of goodness too great to be probable, and at the same time dreaded to be just, from the pain of obligation, were proved beyond their greatest extent to be true!
dickens|And indeed, I think we are all engaged, except the baby.
austen|It was many months since she had mentioned his name to Elizabeth; but now, as soon as they were alone together, she said  I saw you look at me today, Lizzy, when my aunt told us of the present report; and I know I appeared distressed.
dickens|A dog?
austen|They gradually ascended for halfamile, and then found themselves at the top of a considerable eminence, where the wood ceased, and the eye was instantly caught by Pemberley House, situated on the opposite side of a valley, into which the road with some abruptness wound.
dickens|John, thought madame, checking off her work as her fingers knitted, and her eyes looked at the stranger.
dickens|Monsieur Defarges olfactory sense was by no means delicate, but the stock of wine smelt much stronger than it ever tasted, and so did the stock of rum and brandy and aniseed.
austen|The event was more favourable to Mr Woodhouse than to Emma.
dickens|You have been drawing pretty freely here; your name occurs pretty often in Wemmicks cashbook; but you are in debt, of course?
dickens|I went softly towards it, meaning to peep over the flowers, when Joe and Biddy stood before me, arm in arm.
austen|No, my dear little modest Harriet, depend upon it the picture will not be in Bondstreet till just before he mounts his horse tomorrow.
austen|succeeded in the true English style, burying under a calmness that seemed all but indifference, the real attachment which would have led either of them, if requisite, to do every thing for the good of the other.
dickens|Let him eat it now!
austen|She had been decided in wishing for a Miss Weston.
austen|No, my dear, I think not.
austen|thoughtless, thoughtless Lydia!
austen|Circumstances that might swell to half an hours relation, and contained multiplied proofs to her who had seen them, had passed undiscerned by her who now heard them; but the two latest occurrences to be mentioned, the two of strongest promise to Harriet, were not without some degree of witness from Emma herself.
dickens|Have I no power for good, with you, at all?
austen|Most earnestly did she labour to prove the probability of error, and seek to clear the one without involving the other.
austen|They might chuse to surprize her.
dickens|No.
dickens|Yes, I am to rest here a little, and I am to drink some tea, and you are to take care of me the while.
dickens|he calmly asked, looking with attention at the horizontal lines of black and stone colour.
dickens|Ah!
austen|nowhat an impudent dog I was!
dickens|May I ask a question, Doctor Manette, before I go?
dickens|The piece of ordnance referred to, was mounted in a separate fortress, constructed of latticework.
dickens|Why, yes, of Beauvais.
austen|To the civil inquiries which then poured in, and amongst which she had the pleasure of distinguishing the much superior solicitude of Mr Bingleys, she could not make a very favourable answer.
austen|My resolution of thanking you for your kindness to Lydia had certainly great effect.
austen|Yes, all of us; Mrs Elton would have us come.
austen|She practises very constantly.
dickens|Like a sort of rebel, dont you see?
dickens|As Estella dealt the cards, I glanced at the dressingtable again, and saw that the shoe upon it, once white, now yellow, had never been worn.
dickens|What is that noise?
austen|Ever since the service he rendered Jane at Weymouth, when they were out in that party on the water, and she, by the sudden whirling round of something or other among the sails, would have been dashed into the sea at once, and actually was all but gone, if he had not, with the greatest presence of mind, caught hold of her habit I can never think of it without trembling!
dickens|I made it, said Joe, my own self.
austen|W.
austen|If it can be contrived to be at the Crown, papa, it will be very convenient for the horses.
dickens|No, Joseph, said my sister, still in a reproachful manner, while Joe apologetically drew the back of his hand across and across his nose, you do not yetthough you may not think itknow the case.
dickens|Here they come, fast, fierce, and furious!
dickens|In the village, taxers and taxed were fast asleep.
dickens|When she was dead, I apprehend he first told his daughter what he had done, and then the son became a part of the family, residing in the house you are acquainted with.
austen|A promise of secrecy was of course very dutifully given, but it could not be kept without difficulty; for the curiosity excited by his long absence burst forth in such very direct questions on his return as required some ingenuity to evade, and he was at the same time exercising great selfdenial, for he was longing to publish his prosperous love.
dickens|The instant he entered the room, it was plain that all was lost.
austen|Mrs Elton, before she could be spoken to, was ready; and before Mr Woodhouse had reached her with his request to be allowed to hand her into the diningparlour, was saying  Must I go first?
dickens|But I know him no better now, than I did before I could speak plainly.
austen|And as I come back, I can call on Lady Lucas and Mrs Long.
austen|I can imagine your objection to Harriet Smith.
austen|I did not know that you intended to walk, said Miss Bingley, in some confusion, lest they had been overheard.
dickens|She may ask for Mr Jarvis Lorry, or she may only ask for a gentleman from Tellsons Bank.
austen|Their other engagements were few, as the style of living in the neighbourhood in general was beyond Mr Collinss reach.
dickens|An epergne or centrepiece of some kind was in the middle of this cloth; it was so heavily overhung with cobwebs that its form was quite undistinguishable; and, as I looked along the yellow expanse out of which I remember its seeming to grow, like a black fungus, I saw specklelegged spiders with blotchy bodies running home to it, and running out from it, as if some circumstances of the greatest public importance had just transpired in the spider community.
austen|He could now, without the drawback of a single unpleasant surmise, without a glance forward at any possible treachery in his guest, give way to all his natural kindhearted civility in solicitous inquiries after Mr Frank Churchills accommodation on his journey, through the sad evils of sleeping two nights on the road, and express very genuine unmixed anxiety to know that he had certainly escaped catching coldwhich, however, he could not allow him to feel quite assured of himself till after another night.
austen|It was a delightful visit;perfect, in being much too short.
austen|I am almost afraid of asking what you thought of me, when we met at Pemberley.
austen|To this question his daughter replied only with a laugh; and as it had been asked without the least suspicion, she was not distressed by his repeating it.
dickens|He found her child and Miss Pross with her; but, it never occurred to him to be surprised by their appearance until a long time afterwards, when he sat watching them in such quiet as the night knew.
austen|Oh!
dickens|It was so clearly beyond hope to reason with him, or try to restore him, thatas if by agreementthey each put a hand upon his shoulder, and soothed him to sit down before the fire, with a promise that he should have his work presently.
austen|Her height was pretty, just such as almost every body would think tall, and nobody could think very tall; her figure particularly graceful; her size a most becoming medium, between fat and thin, though a slight appearance of illhealth seemed to point out the likeliest evil of the two.
dickens|But, though the Doctor tried hard, and never ceased trying, to get Charles Darnay set at liberty, or at least to get him brought to trial, the public current of the time set too strong and fast for him.
dickens|His stock consisted of a wooden stool, made out of a brokenbacked chair cut down, which stool, young Jerry, walking at his fathers side, carried every morning to beneath the bankinghouse window that was nearest Temple Bar where, with the addition of the first handful of straw that could be gleaned from any passing vehicle to keep the cold and wet from the oddjobmans feet, it formed the encampment for the day.
dickens|Accordingly, Mr Stryver inaugurated the Long Vacation with a formal proposal to take Miss Manette to Vauxhall Gardens; that failing, to Ranelagh; that unaccountably failing too, it behoved him to present himself in Soho, and there declare his noble mind.
dickens|Stooping down beside him, the roadmender tried to get a peep at secret weapons in his breast or where not; but, in vain, for he slept with his arms crossed upon him, and set as resolutely as his lips.
dickens|Like me.
austen|Good fires and carriages would be much more to the purpose in most cases of delicate health, and I dare say in hers.
dickens|He was otherwise quite selfpossessed, bowed to the Judge, and stood quiet.
dickens|I found the Blue Boar in possession of the intelligence, and I found that it made a great change in the Boars demeanour.
austen|It soon appeared that London was not the place for her.
austen|For the world would not she have seemed to threaten me.
austen|But your father is not going so far; he is only going to the Crown, quite on the other side of the street, and there are a great many houses; you might be very much at a loss, and it is a very dirty walk, unless you keep on the footpath; but my coachman can tell you where you had best cross the street.
austen|she found something else must be done.
dickens|The man was in no hurry, and struck again with the flint and steel.
austen|Pretty well, my dearI hopepretty well.
austen|That his two sisters and Mr Darcy, however, should have such an opportunity of ridiculing her relations, was bad enough, and she could not determine whether the silent contempt of the gentleman, or the insolent smiles of the ladies, were more intolerable.
dickens|But he knowed Orlick, and Orlicks in the county jail.
dickens|Thats enough for me.
dickens|I feel, said Miss Pross, as if there had been a flash and a crash, and that crash was the last thing I should ever hear in this life.
austen|Mr Gardiner did not attempt to conceal these particulars from the Longbourn family.
austen|Such schemes as these are nothing without numbers.
austen|Let me hear from you without delay; I am impatient for a thousand particulars.
austen|No judge of his own manners by you.
dickens|Towards that small and ghostly hour, he rose up from his chair, took a key out of his pocket, opened a locked cupboard, and brought forth a sack, a crowbar of convenient size, a rope and chain, and other fishing tackle of that nature.
dickens|That night, I tell him, when the paper is read through, and the lamp is burnt out, and the day is gleaming in above those shutters and between those iron bars, that I have now a secret to communicate.
dickens|If theres been any fault at all today, its mine.
dickens|Not too much, but pretty well.
dickens|I have a pretty large experience of boys, and youre a bad set of fellows.
dickens|They were strengthened into certainty when I beheld the Aged enter at a side door, escorting a lady.
dickens|He was drawing his hand from his breast; the prisoner chancing to look up in his hurried wonder as he wrote, the hand stopped, closing upon something.
dickens|Begin again, and let me look at something else.
dickens|The other is his brother, the worst of a bad race.
dickens|He still had his wig and gown on, and he said, squaring himself at his late client to that degree that he squeezed the innocent Mr Lorry clean out of the group I am glad to have brought you off with honour, Mr Darnay.
dickens|Theres no better rule.
austen|He heard her with astonishment.
austen|Put it up, put it up; we will have a good talk about it some other time, but it will not do now.
austen|It now occurred to the girls that their mother was in all likelihood perfectly ignorant of what had happened.
austen|It was but a drop or two, but I am so afraidbut Mr Frank Churchill was so extremelyand there was a mat to step uponI shall never forget his extreme politeness.
dickens|There is but one way that I know of.
dickens|Much as if one nostril was caught up with a horsehair and a little fishhook.
austen|Mrs Bennet had so carefully provided for the entertainment of her brother and sister, that they did not once sit down to a family dinner.
dickens|Hush, dear!
austen|And such a noble fire!
austen|No, it by no means wanted strengthit was not a large hand, but very clear and certainly strong.
dickens|I hope you are pretty well!
dickens|They were ready to go to church; the beautiful bride, Mr Lorry, and Miss Prossto whom the event, through a gradual process of reconcilement to the inevitable, would have been one of absolute bliss, but for the yet lingering consideration that her brother Solomon should have been the bridegroom.
dickens|She set on every dish; and I always saw in her face, a face rising out of the caldron.
dickens|I communicated to Magwitchin New South Waleswhen he first wrote to mefrom New South Walesthe caution that he must not expect me ever to deviate from the strict line of fact.
austen|Well, that is very decided indeedthat does seem as ifbut, however, it may all come to nothing, you know.
austen|Do let me hear what she says.
dickens|Funerals had at all times a remarkable attraction for Mr Cruncher; he always pricked up his senses, and became excited, when a funeral passed Tellsons.
dickens|You would want nothing for so doing?
dickens|That, the proof would go back five years, and would show the prisoner already engaged in these pernicious missions, within a few weeks before the date of the very first action fought between the British troops and the Americans.
austen|Mr Weston, I could not have believed it of you!
dickens|Pick up that, philosopher and vendor of wine, said the Marquis, throwing him another gold coin, and spend it as you will.
austen|no; Perry shall have all the credit.
austen|Dear Miss Woodhouse, how could you so mistake me?
dickens|Where did you get swords from?
dickens|Miss Pross only shook her head and wept in silence.
dickens|In the heavy air of the room, and the heavy darkness that brooded in its remoter corners, I even had an alarming fancy that Estella and I might presently begin to decay.
austen|For Miss , read Miss Smith.
austen|Suppose I go and invite Miss Bates to join us?
austen|Such might be his constitution; and as she knew that eating and drinking were often the cure of such incidental complaints, she recommended his taking some refreshment; he would find abundance of every thing in the diningroomand she humanely pointed out the door.
dickens|But come in, come in.
austen|Any thing else I should be most happy to do, at your commandbut my dancing days are over.
austen|The time fixed for the beginning of their northern tour was now fast approaching, and a fortnight only was wanting of it, when a letter arrived from Mrs Gardiner, which at once delayed its commencement and curtailed its extent.
austen|I do not admire it, said Mr Knightley.
austen|She is known only as parlourboarder at a common school.
austen|Tea passed pleasantly, and nobody seemed in a hurry to move.
austen|In such a party, Harriet would be rather a dead weight than otherwise; but for the poor girl herself, it seemed a peculiarly cruel necessity that was to be placing her in such a state of unmerited punishment.
dickens|No fight could have been half so terrible as this dance.
dickens|We were all tenants of histhat mans who stands there.
austen|She would not allow any other anxiety to succeed directly to the place in her mind which Harriet had occupied.
austen|Lady Catherine hesitated for a moment, and then replied  The engagement between them is of a peculiar kind.
dickens|Having hardly any time for consideration,my watch showing me that the coach started within half an hour,I resolved to go.
austen|I shall never be quite happy till I have been all round the park.
austen|He pausedand growing cooler in a moment, added, with only sarcastic dryness, If Mr Perry can tell me how to convey a wife and five children a distance of an hundred and thirty miles with no greater expense or inconvenience than a distance of forty, I should be as willing to prefer Cromer to South End as he could himself.
austen|I have an idea he was standing just here.
dickens|Monsieur Gabelle, chief functionary of the place, became uneasy; went out on his housetop alone, and looked in that direction too; glanced down from behind his chimneys at the darkening faces by the fountain below, and sent word to the sacristan who kept the keys of the church, that there might be need to ring the tocsin byandbye.
austen|Can I speak plainer?
austen|Did you go by the village of Kympton?
austen|Your gallantry is really unanswerable.
dickens|Mr Pocket got his hands in his hair again, and this time really did lift himself some inches out of his chair.
austen|We have notice of it in a letter today.
dickens|The manner of both was imperious, and they both moved, as these words were spoken, so as to place me between themselves and the carriage door.
dickens|What is it?
austen|Bingley expressed great pleasure in the certainty of seeing Elizabeth again, having still a great deal to say to her, and many inquiries to make after all their Hertfordshire friends.
austen|Somebody else believed Mrs.
dickens|Advancing his hand by little and little, he took it up and looked at it.
dickens|I was so struck by the horror of this idea, which had weighed upon me from the first, and the working out of which would make me regard myself, in some sort, as his murderer, that I could not rest in my chair, but began pacing to and fro.
dickens|I have my Leave to Pass.
austen|She introduced him to her friend, Miss Smith, and, at convenient moments afterwards, heard what each thought of the other.
dickens|Mr Pocket was in good spirits, when a housemaid came in, and said, If you please, sir, I should wish to speak to you.
austen|Yes, vanity is a weakness indeed.
dickens|He had never seen the instrument that was to terminate his life.
austen|We think so very differently on this point, Mr Knightley, that there can be no use in canvassing it.
dickens|Joe said he was agreeable, and would take me, if Mrs Joe approved.
austen|It may be possible to do without dancing entirely.
austen|It is Frank Churchills duty to pay this attention to his father.
austen|When you are tired of eating strawberries in the garden, there shall be cold meat in the house.
dickens|Now, when you take me in hand in my learning, Pip and I tell you beforehand I am awful dull, most awful dull, Mrs Joe mustnt see too much of what were up to.
dickens|It is not my secret, but anothers.
dickens|said I, when I had done my stirring, and was taking a final warm in the chimney corner before being sent up to bed; was that great guns, Joe?
austen|He added that Mr Bennet seemed wholly disinclined at present to leave London and promised to write again very soon.
dickens|Is that all the story?
austen|The justice of the charge struck her too forcibly for denial, and the circumstances to which he particularly alluded as having passed at the Netherfield ball, and as confirming all his first disapprobation, could not have made a stronger impression on his mind than on hers.
austen|He agreed to it, but with so quiet a Yes, as inclined her almost to doubt his real concurrence; and yet there must be a very distinct sort of elegance for the fashionable world, if Jane Fairfax could be thought only ordinarily gifted with it.
austen|Miss Bates was out, which accounted for the previous tranquillity.
austen|Miss Woodhouse, what a pity that I must not write this beautiful charade into my book!
dickens|Even the Cocklane ghost had been laid only a round dozen of years, after rapping out its messages, as the spirits of this very year last past supernaturally deficient in originality rapped out theirs.
dickens|As they walked on in silence, he could not but see how used the people were to the spectacle of prisoners passing along the streets.
austen|I am ready, said Emma, whenever I am wanted.
dickens|This collation disposed of at a moderate price considering the grease, which was not charged for, we went back to Barnards Inn and got my little portmanteau, and then took coach for Hammersmith.
dickens|He had never been suspected of stealing a silver teapot; he had been maligned respecting a mustardpot, but it turned out to be only a plated one.
austen|It has hurt me, Emma, very much.
austen|After an affectionate parting between the friends, Elizabeth was attended to the carriage by Mr Collins, and as they walked down the garden he was commissioning her with his best respects to all her family, not forgetting his thanks for the kindness he had received at Longbourn in the winter, and his compliments to Mr and Mrs Gardiner, though unknown.
dickens|Once.
dickens|It is a long time, repeated his wife; and when is it not a long time?
dickens|For, I cannot adequately express what pain it gave me to think that Estella should show any favor to a contemptible, clumsy, sulky booby, so very far below the average.
austen|Dear me!
austen|She promised, however, to think of it; and pretty nearly promised, moreover, to think of it, with the intention of finding it a very good scheme.
austen|Will it not be advisable, before we proceed on this subject, to arrange with rather more precision the degree of importance which is to appertain to this request, as well as the degree of intimacy subsisting between the parties?
austen|I have faults enough, but they are not, I hope, of understanding.
austen|Are you going much farther?
dickens|As it advanced, the mender of roads would discern without surprise, that it was a shaggyhaired man, of almost barbarian aspect, tall, in wooden shoes that were clumsy even to the eyes of a mender of roads, grim, rough, swart, steeped in the mud and dust of many highways, dank with the marshy moisture of many low grounds, sprinkled with the thorns and leaves and moss of many byways through woods.
dickens|But access to him, said Mr Lorry, if it should go ill before the Tribunal, will not save him.
dickens|I am a poor little seamstress, who was with you in La Force.
dickens|Defarge had but sprung over a railing and a table, and folded the miserable wretch in a deadly embraceMadame Defarge had but followed and turned her hand in one of the ropes with which he was tiedThe Vengeance and Jacques Three were not yet up with them, and the men at the windows had not yet swooped into the Hall, like birds of prey from their high percheswhen the cry seemed to go up, all over the city, Bring him out!
dickens|From that time, in all weathers, she waited there two hours.
dickens|For, as I says to Biddy when the news of your being ill were brought by letter, which it were brought by the post, and being formerly single he is now married though underpaid for a deal of walking and shoeleather, but wealth were not a object on his part, and marriage were the great wish of his hart  It is so delightful to hear you, Joe!
austen|This match, to which you have the presumption to aspire, can never take place.
dickens|Pip, sir.
dickens|Which appeared to me to be an inquiry of unnecessary strength.
dickens|We basely replied that we rather thought we had noticed such a man.
austen|I am no dancer.
austen|Do you talk by rule, then, while you are dancing?
austen|He is a most charming young man.
austen|All field sports were over.
dickens|To the present moment, I believe it to have been referable to some pure fire of generosity and disinterestedness in my love for her, that I could not endure the thought of her stooping to that hound.
dickens|The elder gentleman took the cry so ill, that he watched his opportunity, and smote the young gentleman on the ear.
dickens|exclaimed the hungry man, staring.
dickens|Dear Joe, I hope you will have children to love, and that some little fellow will sit in this chimneycorner of a winter night, who may remind you of another little fellow gone out of it for ever.
dickens|Doctors who made great fortunes out of dainty remedies for imaginary disorders that never existed, smiled upon their courtly patients in the antechambers of Monseigneur.
dickens|Here, after gradually failing in loftier hopes, he had read  with divers who had lacked opportunities or neglected them, and had refurbished divers others for special occasions, and had turned his acquirements to the account of literary compilation and correction, and on such means, added to some very moderate private resources, still maintained the house I saw.
austen|And cannot you call me George now?
austen|She would be in nobodys way, you know, in that part of the house.
austen|She knew the importance of it, and said every thing in her power to do it away.
dickens|The rider from the chateau, and the horse in a foam, clattered away through the village, and galloped up the stony steep, to the prison on the crag.
austen|said Lydia stoutly, I am not afraid; for though I am the youngest, Im the tallest.
dickens|As to forming any plan for the future, I could as soon have formed an elephant.
dickens|Can I spare this Doctor to my husband?
dickens|Long ago.
dickens|Then go into that opposite room, said she, pointing at the door behind me with her withered hand, and wait there till I come.
austen|It spoke such perfect amity.
dickens|Giving this citizen, too, good night, as he confronted him at his counter, he laid the scrap of paper before him.
austen|Every savage can dance.
dickens|When I lose my temper not that I admit having done so on that occasion, I dont throw glasses.
austen|I had not thought so very ill of him.
dickens|Saving for a mysterious dread of madame by which he was constantly haunted, his life was very new and agreeable.
dickens|Then I say yes, said Stryver I wont go up there now, I am not so hot upon it as that comes to; I say yes, and I shall expect you to look in tonight.
dickens|cried Wemmick, suddenly hitting out at the turnkey in a facetious way, youre dumb as one of your own keys when you have to do with my principal, you know you are.
dickens|What?
dickens|Dont look!
austen|It must be done directly; it must be done in London; the order must go through the hands of some intelligent person whose taste could be depended on; and Isabella, the usual doer of all commissions, must not be applied to, because it was December, and Mr Woodhouse could not bear the idea of her stirring out of her house in the fogs of December.
dickens|A gentle pressure on my hand.
austen|Elizabeth made no attempt to reason with her mother, but remained quietly in the hall, till she and Kitty were out of sight, then returned into the drawingroom.
dickens|I do not address her brother?
dickens|muttered Defarge.
dickens|Do you advance with him?
dickens|A folded piece of paper in one of them attracting my attention, I opened it and found it to be the playbill I had received from Joe, relative to the celebrated provincial amateur of Roscian renown.
austen|She was told that now he wrote with the greatest confidence of being often with them, almost as often as he could even wish.
dickens|Joe got off with half a pint; but was made to swallow that much to his disturbance, as he sat slowly munching and meditating before the fire, because he had had a turn.
austen|The express was sent off directly.
austen|When Denny, and Wickham, and Pratt, and two or three more of the men came in, they did not know him in the least.
austen|What Mr Elton had learned from the ostler on the subject, being the accumulation of the ostlers own knowledge, and the knowledge of the servants at Randalls, was, that a messenger had come over from Richmond soon after the return of the party from Box Hillwhich messenger, however, had been no more than was expected; and that Mr Churchill had sent his nephew a few lines, containing, upon the whole, a tolerable account of Mrs Churchill, and only wishing him not to delay coming back beyond the next morning early; but that Mr Frank Churchill having resolved to go home directly, without waiting at all, and his horse seeming to have got a cold, Tom had been sent off immediately for the Crown chaise, and the ostler had stood out and seen it pass by, the boy going a good pace, and driving very steady.
austen|I must tell you what an unlucky thing happened to me, as to that.
austen|Very well; and if he had intended to give her one, he would have told her so.
austen|Emma only nodded, and smiled.
austen|Let my accents swell to Mickleham on one side, and Dorking on the other.
dickens|And then I thought of Estella, and of our parting, and went home very sadly.
austen|Ah!
dickens|These judges, and all the men in power, are very friendly to you, and very recognisant of your services; are they not?
austen|The subjection in which his father had brought him up had given him originally great humility of manner; but it was now a good deal counteracted by the selfconceit of a weak head, living in retirement, and the consequential feelings of early and unexpected prosperity.
austen|In half an hour the arrowroot was returned, with a thousand thanks from Miss Bates, but dear Jane would not be satisfied without its being sent back; it was a thing she could not takeand, moreover, she insisted on her saying, that she was not at all in want of any thing.
austen|And in this style he talked on for some time very properly, not much attending to any answer, but altogether sufficiently awake to the terror of a bad sore throat; and Emma was quite in charity with him.
dickens|I always observed that their pride bitterly resented the younger brothers as I call him having crossed swords with a peasant, and that peasant a boy.
dickens|Not a bit of it!
dickens|Darnay rang.
austen|Let me be rightly understood.
dickens|When he felt his case unusually serious, and that he positively must find an opening, he would go on Change at a busy time, and walk in and out, in a kind of gloomy country dance figure, among the assembled magnates.
dickens|The Guillotine goes handsomely.
austen|When she is secure of him, there will be more leisure for falling in love as much as she chooses.
dickens|The Doctor turned, with his hand upon the fastening of the window, and said, with a cool, bold smile  My dear friend, I have a charmed life in this city.
austen|There is but such a quantity of merit between them; just enough to make one good sort of man; and of late it has been shifting about pretty much.
dickens|I do not understand you.
dickens|or twenty years hence  You do me too much honour, said the Marquis; still, I prefer that supposition.
dickens|Why not?
dickens|The bill being paid, Charles Darnay rose and wished him good night.
austen|convinced her that he had nothing more to say or surmise about Hartfield.
dickens|It will be much the same to your knowledge, miss, I should think,  retorted Jerry, whether they drink your health or the Old Uns.
austen|Emmas politeness was at hand directly, to say, with smiling interest  Have you heard from Miss Fairfax so lately?
austen|She hardly wished to have more leisure for them.
austen|but checking himselfNo, no, I understand youforgive meI am pleased that you can say even so much.
dickens|In the shadow of bank and wall the three turned out of the road, and up a blind lane, of which the wallthere, risen to some eight or ten feet highformed one side.
austen|The path just admitted three.
dickens|Instantly the ghost passed once more and was gone.
dickens|Now, I tell you what!
dickens|Thats just what I dont want, Joe.
austen|I agree with you exactly.
austen|Elizabeth would wonder, and probably would blame her; and though her resolution was not to be shaken, her feelings must be hurt by such a disapprobation.
dickens|I looked into the room where I had left her, and I saw her seated in the ragged chair upon the hearth close to the fire, with her back towards me.
austen|They walked on, without knowing in what direction.
dickens|We men of business, who serve a House, are not our own masters.
dickens|She had shown a proud impatience more than once before, and had rather endured that fierce affection than accepted or returned it.
austen|MY DEAR BROTHER,  At last I am able to send you some tidings of my niece, and such as, upon the whole, I hope it will give you satisfaction.
austen|Darcy, after inquiring of her how Mr and Mrs Gardiner did, a question which she could not answer without confusion, said scarcely anything.
dickens|At last, the Aged read himself into a light slumber.
austen|Our importance, our respectability in the world must be affected by the wild volatility, the assurance and disdain of all restraint which mark Lydias character.
dickens|I think the Romans must have aggravated one another very much, with their noses.
austen|But you, turning to Mr Knightley, who know how very, very seldom I am ever two hours from Hartfield, why you should foresee such a series of dissipation for me, I cannot imagine.
dickens|They advanced, retreated, struck at one anothers hands, clutched at one anothers heads, spun round alone, caught one another and spun round in pairs, until many of them dropped.
austen|John loves Emma with a reasonable and therefore not a blind affection, and Isabella always thinks as he does; except when he is not quite frightened enough about the children.
austen|Ballshad they balls?
dickens|I am as sure of that, Wemmick, as you can be, and I thank you most earnestly for all your interest and friendship.
dickens|It is said, at any rate.
dickens|Its a pity now, Joe, said I, that you did not get on a little more, when we had our lessons here; isnt it?
dickens|How did he get em?
austen|Donwell and Randalls had received their invitation, and none had come for her father and herself; and Mrs Westons accounting for it with I suppose they will not take the liberty with you; they know you do not dine out, was not quite sufficient.
austen|Mr Woodhouse saw the letter, and he says he never saw such a handsome letter in his life.
dickens|We had not gone far when three cannon were fired ahead of us with a sound that seemed to burst something inside my ear.
dickens|I see it all before me.
austen|She had a little beauty and a little accomplishment, but so little judgment that she thought herself coming with superior knowledge of the world, to enliven and improve a country neighbourhood; and conceived Miss Hawkins to have held such a place in society as Mrs Eltons consequence only could surpass.
austen|No!
dickens|It brushes the Newgate cobwebs away, and pleases the Aged.
dickens|I thought.
dickens|The wind being as fierce as ever, we did not care to endanger the light in the lantern by rekindling the extinguished lamps on the staircase, but we examined the staircase from the bottom to the top and found no one there.
dickens|You know its Provis.
dickens|Lucie, my child, if ever you were brave and serviceable in your lifeand you were always bothyou will compose yourself now, to do exactly as I bid you; for more depends upon it than you can think, or I can say.
dickens|said Joe.
austen|Now, my dear madam, I will release you; but I could not conclude before.
dickens|As she had mentioned her husbands name in the faith that I knew it, I added no mention of it to my letter.
austen|Your friend Harriet will make a much longer history when you see her.
austen|said he to Emma, and trying, as he spoke, to catch Miss Fairfaxs eye.
dickens|Never mind your having no enjoyment of womens society, nor understanding of it, nor tact for it.
austen|You like newsand I heard an article in my way hither that I think will interest you.
austen|I have no idea of that sort of thing.
dickens|Room for the Bastille prisoner in front there!
dickens|What like is Miss Havisham?
dickens|As I walked on to the hotel, I felt that a dread, much exceeding the mere apprehension of a painful or disagreeable recognition, made me tremble.
dickens|They seemed to think the opportunity lost, if they failed to point the conversation at me, every now and then, and stick the point into me.
austen|I will do my best.
dickens|I was to be absent only one night, and, on my return, the gratification of his impatience for my starting as a gentleman on a greater scale was to be begun.
dickens|Biddy, looking very neat and modest in her black dress, went quietly here and there, and was very helpful.
dickens|With that, I poked tremendously, and having done so, planted myself side by side with Mr Drummle, my shoulders squared and my back to the fire.
austen|Open the windows!
dickens|It is the same.
dickens|It would be much more commendable to be somebody elses enemy, said the gentleman; far more natural.
austen|I beg you would not put it into Lizzys head to be vexed by his illtreatment, for he is such a disagreeable man, that it would be quite a misfortune to be liked by him.
austen|Whenever Charlotte came to see them, she concluded her to be anticipating the hour of possession; and whenever she spoke in a low voice to Mr Collins, was convinced that they were talking of the Longbourn estate, and resolving to turn herself and her daughters out of the house, as soon as Mr Bennet were dead.
dickens|My fair young English wife!
dickens|I have seen it many times.
dickens|How goes the Republic?
dickens|said he, when he came to a stop.
austen|I have no doubt of their being happy together, said Emma; I believe them to be very mutually and very sincerely attached.
austen|what felicity!
austen|He would not ask Harriet to dance if it were possible to be avoided she was sure he would notand she was expecting him every moment to escape into the cardroom.
austen|Of music!
dickens|It will be dark soon after four.
austen|Harriet, Harriet, do not deceive yourself; do not be run away with by gratitude and compassion.
austen|I love to look at her; and I will add this praise, that I do not think her personally vain.
austen|I will have no reserves from you.
dickens|The object in hand being to show that the prisoner went down, with some fellowplotter untracked, in the Dover mail on that Friday night in November five years ago, and got out of the mail in the night, as a blind, at a place where he did not remain, but from which he travelled back some dozen miles or more, to a garrison and dockyard, and there collected information; a witness was called to identify him as having been at the precise time required, in the coffeeroom of an hotel in that garrisonanddockyard town, waiting for another person.
austen|What!
dickens|Thank you, Miss Havisham, she returned, I am as well as can be expected.
dickens|There was no record or legend of any prisoner with those initials, and many fruitless guesses were made what the name could have been.
austen|Frank Churchill sang again.
dickens|Theres them thats as good a match for your uncle Provis as Old Orlick has been for you.
austen|It is a handsome present.
austen|Before he could return to his chair, it was taken by Mrs Weston.
austen|The heat was excessive; he had never suffered any thing like italmost wished he had staid at homenothing killed him like heathe could bear any degree of cold, etc.
dickens|She treated me as a boy still, but she lured me on.
austen|In this state of suspense they were befriended, not by any sudden illumination of Mr Woodhouses mind, or any wonderful change of his nervous system, but by the operation of the same system in another way.
dickens|Never had I seen such passionate eagerness as was joined to her utterance of these words.
austen|Mrs Bennet, who fancied she had gained a complete victory over him, continued her triumph.
dickens|As one who pretended to do nothing but plunder and forage where he could, the FarmerGeneralhowsoever his matrimonial relations conduced to social moralitywas at least the greatest reality among the personages who attended at the hotel of Monseigneur that day.
dickens|Light those torches.
dickens|Mr Carton came up at the moment, and touched Mr Lorry on the arm.
dickens|Perhaps a little angry with himself, as well as with the barrister, Mr Lorry bustled into the chair, and was carried off to Tellsons.
dickens|As he has said it, returned madame, lifting her eyebrows a little, it is probably false.
dickens|Whos he?
dickens|turning on me again.
dickens|You are right, he returned.
dickens|He came round at the appointed time, took out his jackknife, and sat down to his meal.
austen|Their propriety, simplicity, and elegance, would make them the safest model for any young woman.
dickens|They were only three at table, and Miss Pross made the third.
dickens|Neither were they connected with fear he was conscious of no fear.
austen|Their visitors stayed with them above halfanhour; and when they arose to depart, Mr Darcy called on his sister to join him in expressing their wish of seeing Mr and Mrs Gardiner, and Miss Bennet, to dinner at Pemberley, before they left the country.
austen|She had never seen Frank Churchill so silent and stupid.
dickens|Another fisherman was picked up hereand that so silently, that if Young Jerry had been superstitious, he might have supposed the second follower of the gentle craft to have, all of a sudden, split himself into two.
austen|The very want of such equality might prevent his perception of it; but he must know that in fortune and consequence she was greatly his superior.
dickens|The waiter reappeared.
austen|The pleasure is not enhanced, and the inconvenience is often considerable.
dickens|Halloa!
austen|It is not worth while, Harriet, to give Mrs Ford the trouble of two parcels.
dickens|I had looked into my affairs so often, that I had thoroughly destroyed any slight notion I might ever have had of their bearings.
dickens|Therefore when the President said else had his own head quivered on his shoulders, that the good physician of the Republic would deserve better still of the Republic by rooting out an obnoxious family of Aristocrats, and would doubtless feel a sacred glow and joy in making his daughter a widow and her child an orphan, there was wild excitement, patriotic fervour, not a touch of human sympathy.
dickens|No.
austen|She was not equal, however, to much conversation, and when Miss Bingley left them together, could attempt little besides expressions of gratitude for the extraordinary kindness she was treated with.
austen|They are always so pleased to see my children.
austen|An express arrived at Randalls to announce the death of Mrs Churchill!
dickens|After dinner a bottle of choice old port was placed before my guardian he was evidently well acquainted with the vintage, and the two ladies left us.
dickens|His figure was a little ungainly, as in the days when my knuckles had taken such liberties with it, but it looked as if it would always be light and young.
dickens|Except on the crown, which was raggedly bald, he had stiff, black hair, standing jaggedly all over it, and growing down hill almost to his broad, blunt nose.
dickens|Were you at his performance, Joe?
austen|Mans boasted power and freedom, all are flown;     Lord of the earth and sea, he bends a slave,       And woman, lovely woman, reigns alone.
austen|It should not be said that the Miss Bennets could not be at home half a day before they were in pursuit of the officers.
austen|She would not be in a hurry to find fault, but she suspected that there was no elegance;ease, but not elegance.
austen|my dear sir, her throat is so much better that I have hardly any uneasiness about it.
dickens|I persuaded myself that I knew he was taken; that there was something more upon my mind than a fear or a presentiment; that the fact had occurred, and I had a mysterious knowledge of it.
dickens|How it would be a weakness in the government to break down in this attempt to practise for popularity on the lowest national antipathies and fears, and therefore Mr AttorneyGeneral had made the most of it; how, nevertheless, it rested upon nothing, save that vile and infamous character of evidence too often disfiguring such cases, and of which the State Trials of this country were full.
austen|When she was halfway up the set, the whole group were exactly behind her, and she would no longer allow her eyes to watch; but Mr Elton was so near, that she heard every syllable of a dialogue which just then took place between him and Mrs Weston; and she perceived that his wife, who was standing immediately above her, was not only listening also, but even encouraging him by significant glances.
dickens|Halloa, father!
austen|Scarcely anything was talked of the whole day or next morning but their visit to Rosings.
austen|But, however, he is very welcome to come to Netherfield, if he likes it.
austen|Oh!
dickens|she laughed, you poor wretch!
dickens|Here my sister, after a fit of clappings and screamings, beat her hands upon her bosom and upon her knees, and threw her cap off, and pulled her hair down,which were the last stages on her road to frenzy.
austen|We are not on friendly terms, and it always gives me pain to meet him, but I have no reason for avoiding him but what I might proclaim before all the world, a sense of very great illusage, and most painful regrets at his being what he is.
austen|He then recollected her embarrassment a few days before, on his reading Mr Collinss letter; and after laughing at her some time, allowed her at last to gosaying, as she quitted the room, If any young men come for Mary or Kitty, send them in, for I am quite at leisure.
austen|Why did the Forsters ever let her go out of their sight?
dickens|Their arrival had lighted a kind of fire in the breast of Saint Antoine, fast spreading as they came along, which stirred and flickered in flames of faces at most doors and windows.
austen|But to live in ignorance on such a point was impossible; or at least it was impossible not to try for information.
dickens|Affected, and impressed with terror as they both were, by this spectacle of ruin, it was not a time to yield to such emotions.
dickens|As to took up on suspicion, that was twice or three times in the four or five year that it lasted; but evidence was wanting.
dickens|Is she?
dickens|Upon that there stool, at that there Bar, sets that there boy of mine, brought up and growed up to be a man, wot will errand you, message you, generallightjob you, till your heels is where your head is, if such should be your wishes.
dickens|She held him closer round the neck, and rocked him on her breast like a child.
dickens|He shook in a selfabnegating way, as one who shook for Tellson and Co.
austen|Your conduct would be quite as dependent on chance as that of any man I know; and if, as you were mounting your horse, a friend were to say, Bingley, you had better stay till next week, you would probably do it, you would probably not goand at another word, might stay a month.
dickens|The tocsin rang impatiently, but other help if that were any there was none.
austen|She has been doing everything in her power by thinking and talking on the subject, to give greaterwhat shall I call it?
dickens|My name is on the first leaf.
dickens|He was not indifferent, for he told me that he hoped to live to see his gentleman one of the best of gentlemen in a foreign country; he was not disposed to be passive or resigned, as I understood it; but he had no notion of meeting danger half way.
austen|She always travels with her own sheets; an excellent precaution.
dickens|First, the lonely boarspears and knives of the chase had been reddened as of old; then, had gleamed trenchant in the morning sunshine; now, doors and windows were thrown open, horses in their stables looked round over their shoulders at the light and freshness pouring in at doorways, leaves sparkled and rustled at irongrated windows, dogs pulled hard at their chains, and reared impatient to be loosed.
dickens|Thirtyfive, said the mender of roads, who looked sixty.
dickens|When I asked this officers permission to change the prisoners wet clothes by purchasing any spare garments I could get at the publichouse, he gave it readily merely observing that he must take charge of everything his prisoner had about him.
dickens|Thats the man, wrapped in the cloak.
dickens|Of what?
dickens|Miss Havisham, you must know, was a spoilt child.
austen|She had not herself forgotten to feel that the marriage of her sister must bring them more frequently together.
austen|Now,said Emma, when they were fairly beyond the sweep gates,now Mr Weston, do let me know what has happened.
dickens|He noticed that she once or twice whispered in his ear, and that she seemed to be his wife; but, what he most noticed in the two figures was, that although they were posted as close to himself as they could be, they never looked towards him.
dickens|asked Mr Pumblechook.
austen|Ah!
dickens|And only he, said Mr Jaggers.
austen|She was always quick and assured Isabella slow and diffident.
austen|I do not say when, but perhaps you may guess where;in the building in which N.
austen|Do not be afraid of my running into any excess, of my encroaching on your privilege of universal goodwill.
austen|Yes, I do comprehend a great deal in it.
austen|Our distress, my dear Lizzy, is very great.
austen|My dear Isabella, I have not heard you make one inquiry about Mr Perry yet; and he never forgets you.
austen|On the evening before my going to London, said he, I made a confession to him, which I believe I ought to have made long ago.
austen|She allowed him to talk, and arranged the glasses, and wrapped herself up, without opening her lips.
dickens|said Joe, looking at it with a slow, searching eye, One, two, three.
dickens|If your sagacity, knowledge, and experience, could put me on the right track, I might be able to do so much; unenlightened and undirected, I can do so little.
dickens|asked Mr Lorry, with natural hesitation.
austen|If he fears me, why come hither?
austen|There were wishes at Randalls respecting Emmas destiny, but it was not desirable to have them suspected; and the quiet transition which Mr Knightley soon afterwards made to What does Weston think of the weather; shall we have rain?
dickens|He said nothing at the moment, for he and Joe had just got a piece of hot iron between them, and I was at the bellows; but by and by he said, leaning on his hammer,  Now, master!
dickens|It was never so well worth your while to get me out of this country as it is tonight.
dickens|The least thingnothingstartles you!
austen|When she took in her history, indeed, her situation, as well as her beauty; when she considered what all this elegance was destined to, what she was going to sink from, how she was going to live, it seemed impossible to feel any thing but compassion and respect; especially, if to every wellknown particular entitling her to interest, were added the highly probable circumstance of an attachment to Mr Dixon, which she had so naturally started to herself.
dickens|I must see Lorry.
austen|No, I do not; that is, I do not meanWhat shall I do?
dickens|He has not relinquished her patient hand in getting out, but still holds it as he promised.
austen|Pardon mebut you will be limited as to numberonly three at once.
austen|How well it sounds!
dickens|Even in my fathers time, we did a world of wrong, injuring every human creature who came between us and our pleasure, whatever it was.
dickens|beats everything past, present, and to come.
dickens|When did you come to town, Mr Gargery?
dickens|There were states of the tide when, having been down the river, I could not get back through the eddychafed arches and starlings of old London Bridge; then, I left my boat at a wharf near the Custom House, to be brought up afterwards to the Temple stairs.
austen|my dear, human flesh!
austen|I am glad he dines here on Tuesday.
austen|Dear Sir,  The disagreement subsisting between yourself and my late honoured father always gave me much uneasiness, and since I have had the misfortune to lose him, I have frequently wished to heal the breach; but for some time I was kept back by my own doubts, fearing lest it might seem disrespectful to his memory for me to be on good terms with anyone with whom it had always pleased him to be at variance.
dickens|He had naturally repressed much, and some revulsion might have been expected in him when the occasion for repression was gone.
austen|Did he know of their intending to go off?
dickens|exclaimed Carton, with a bright flush.
dickens|There was no variation in the order, or the manner.
dickens|But, the suppressed manner had enough of menace in itnot visible and presented, but indistinct and withheldto alarm Lucie into saying, as she laid her appealing hand on Madame Defarges dress  You will be good to my poor husband.
austen|They must be separated; but there was a great deal of pain in the processso much to herself at this time, that she soon felt the necessity of a little consolation, and resolved on going home by way of Randalls to procure it.
austen|I am sure you must feel it so.
austen|Oh, no!
austen|For a little while Emma persevered in her silence; but beginning to apprehend the bewitching flattery of that letter might be too powerful, she thought it best to say,  I lay it down as a general rule, Harriet, that if a woman doubts as to whether she should accept a man or not, she certainly ought to refuse him.
dickens|I stopped, fearing I might say too much, or had already said it, and we took another look at each other.
austen|My good opinion once lost, is lost forever.
dickens|The freshness of her beauty was indeed gone, but its indescribable majesty and its indescribable charm remained.
dickens|Was he a spy?
dickens|Violent blasts of rain had accompanied these rages of wind, and the day just closed as I sat down to read had been the worst of all.
dickens|The standard gaolerjoke was, Come out and listen to the Evening Paper, you inside there!
dickens|No man ever really loved a woman, lost her, and knew her with a blameless though an unchanged mind, when she was a wife and a mother, but her children had a strange sympathy with himan instinctive delicacy of pity for him.
dickens|We had our peacoats with us, and I took a bag.
dickens|It attracted Mr Lorrys eyes to Cartons face, which was turned to the fire.
dickens|They crowded to the grates and shed tears there; but, twenty places in the projected entertainments had to be refilled, and the time was, at best, short to the lockup hour, when the common rooms and corridors would be delivered over to the great dogs who kept watch there through the night.
austen|Had they been only ten minutes sooner, they should have been beyond the reach of his discrimination; for it was plain that he was that moment arrivedthat moment alighted from his horse or his carriage.
austen|Bingley is most unaffectedly modest.
austen|He could not have appeared to greater advantage perhaps anywhere, than where he had placed himself.
austen|The first two dances, however, brought a return of distress; they were dances of mortification.
dickens|Pray excuse me!
dickens|said she, smartly, as she put down her cup.
dickens|I cant sleep.
dickens|You must know, said my sister, rising, its a pie; a savory pork pie.
austen|In half a minute they were together.
dickens|But she sat perfectly still in his grasp, and only said, in a low voice, I entreat you, good gentlemen, do not come near us, do not speak, do not move!
austen|She is well, and begs to be dutifully remembered to you and her mother.
austen|This was really his, said Harriet.
austen|When this was over, Mr Woodhouse gratefully observed, It is very kind of you, Mr Knightley, to come out at this late hour to call upon us.
austen|If Mr Darcy is neither by honour nor inclination confined to his cousin, why is not he to make another choice?
dickens|We agreed that his remaining many days in his present hazard was not to be thought of.
austen|Very likely, said Emmanothing more likely.
dickens|Dear little thing!
austen|He would do any good to her, or her family; but  Well, said Mrs Weston, laughing, perhaps the greatest good he could do them, would be to give Jane such a respectable home.
dickens|It had an unusually large jacktowel on a roller inside the door, and he would wash his hands, and wipe them and dry them all over this towel, whenever he came in from a police court or dismissed a client from his room.
austen|It was his object to blind all about him; and no one, I am sure, could be more effectually blinded than myselfexcept that I was not blindedthat it was my good fortunethat, in short, I was somehow or other safe from him.
dickens|For, coming along I had thought well of what I was going to say.
austen|Did not you misunderstand him?
dickens|Ever the best of friends; aint us, Pip?
dickens|Always rusty!
dickens|At a little after midnight.
austen|She read with an eagerness which hardly left her power of comprehension, and from impatience of knowing what the next sentence might bring, was incapable of attending to the sense of the one before her eyes.
austen|The dignity of Miss Woodhouse, of Hartfield, was sunk indeed!
dickens|If you had nothing more pressing to do than to keep here till dark, thats what I should advise.
dickens|If you were to go before, said Miss Pross, and stop the vehicle and horses from coming here, and were to wait somewhere for me; wouldnt that be best?
austen|I honour your circumspection.
dickens|As to the great service, said Carton, I am bound to avow to you, when you speak of it in that way, that it was mere professional claptrap, I dont know that I cared what became of you, when I rendered it.
austen|The last nights ball seemed lost in the gipsies.
dickens|Dinner was laid in the best of these rooms; the second was his dressingroom; the third, his bedroom.
dickens|He also referred with confidence to the citizens letter, which had been taken from him at the Barrier, but which he did not doubt would be found among the papers then before the President.
austen|And yet it was far, very far, from impossible.
austen|Do, if it be possible.
austen|A deeper shade of hauteur overspread his features, but he said not a word, and Elizabeth, though blaming herself for her own weakness, could not go on.
dickens|He led me into a corner and conducted me up a flight of stairs,which appeared to me to be slowly collapsing into sawdust, so that one of those days the upper lodgers would look out at their doors and find themselves without the means of coming down,to a set of chambers on the top floor.
dickens|The Prisoners!
dickens|Madame Defarge made at the door.
dickens|I dont know, said Herbert, thats what I want to know.
austen|Fords was the principal woollendraper, linendraper, and haberdashers shop united; the shop first in size and fashion in the place.
dickens|It is about the only thing I am glad to know of myself in that connection.
austen|She dared not even mention that gentleman.
austen|The contrivances of modern days indeed have rendered a gentlemans carriage perfectly complete.
austen|We live in so different a part of town, all our connections are so different, and, as you well know, we go out so little, that it is very improbable that they should meet at all, unless he really comes to see her.
austen|But the case is altered now.
dickens|So anxiously looked forward to, charged with such consequences, its results so impenetrably hidden, though so near.
dickens|I thought so too, and I took him out for a walk next morning, and we talked immensely, understanding one another to perfection.
dickens|Now, be careful.
austen|Do you really think it a bad thing?
dickens|He took it, and went out, and presently the Stinger went off with a Bang that shook the crazy little box of a cottage as if it must fall to pieces, and made every glass and teacup in it ring.
dickens|Citizen Gabelle was called to confirm it, and did so.
dickens|No, said he.
austen|But now, she would rather it had not happened.
dickens|I was a poor boy then, as you know, and to a poor boy they were a little fortune.
austen|Miss Elizabeth Bennet!
dickens|I opened my eyes in the day, and, sitting on the windowseat, smoking his pipe in the shaded open window, still I saw Joe.
dickens|Every word.
dickens|The very stars to which I then raised my eyes, I am afraid I took to be but poor and humble stars for glittering on the rustic objects among which I had passed my life.
austen|He was so much displeased, that it was longer than usual before he came to Hartfield again; and when they did meet, his grave looks shewed that she was not forgiven.
dickens|Listen then, Jacques, Number One of that name sternly interposed.
austen|Was it impossible?
dickens|Anyhow, with whitewash from the wall on my forehead, my obstinacy was adamantine.
dickens|Light as it was, I heard it fall like a plummet.
dickens|Tellsons had whitewashed the Cupid, but he was still to be seen on the ceiling, in the coolest linen, aiming as he very often does at money from morning to night.
dickens|Can this be possible, uncle?
dickens|Didnt see what that had to do with it.
austen|repeated Mr Bennet.
dickens|It was in vain for Mr Cruncher to repeat what he said; Miss Pross could not hear him.
dickens|It was the close of the summer day, and he knew Lucie to be out with Miss Pross.
austen|This was the occurrenceThe Coles had been settled some years in Highbury, and were very good sort of peoplefriendly, liberal, and unpretending; but, on the other hand, they were of low origin, in trade, and only moderately genteel.
dickens|I felt convinced that if I described Miss Havishams as my eyes had seen it, I should not be understood.
dickens|But, the glorious sun, rising, seemed to strike those words, that burden of the night, straight and warm to his heart in its long bright rays.
dickens|Would you not?
dickens|I suppose I must catch it like a cough, said Biddy, quietly; and went on with her sewing.
austen|Intimate as you are, you must know how it is to be done.
austen|no, no;every feeling revolts.
austen|Has he been here this morning?
dickens|Doctor Manette was very cheerful at the little supper.
austen|He was too good!
dickens|My friend, I told you so, said the uncle, with a fine pulsation in the two marks.
austen|Mr Elton was only too happy.
dickens|There could have been no such Revolution, if all laws, forms, and ceremonies, had not first been so monstrously abused, that the suicidal vengeance of the Revolution was to scatter them all to the winds.
dickens|Come in, Pip, Miss Havisham continued to mutter, without looking round or up; come in, Pip, how do you do, Pip?
dickens|Saturday night, said I, when we sat at our supper of bread and cheese and beer.
dickens|I wished that Wemmick had not met me, or that I had not yielded to him and gone with him, so that, of all days in the year on this day, I might not have had Newgate in my breath and on my clothes.
dickens|Whos a going to try?
austen|His gallantry was always on the alert.
dickens|And then looked all round the room, and paused with his pockethandkerchief in his hand, halfway to his nose.
dickens|For you, and for any dear to you, I would do anything.
dickens|She had seen the houses, as she came along, decorated with little pikes, and with little red caps stuck upon them; also, with tricoloured ribbons; also, with the standard inscription tricoloured letters were the favourite, Republic One and Indivisible.
austen|Wickham of course wanted more than he could get; but at length was reduced to be reasonable.
dickens|The last burst carried the mail to the summit of the hill.
dickens|It was the first time it had ever been so complimented, and Madame Defarge knew enough of its antecedents to know better.
austen|The very first sentence conveyed the assurance of their being all settled in London for the winter, and concluded with her brothers regret at not having had time to pay his respects to his friends in Hertfordshire before he left the country.
dickens|Carton, said his friend, squaring himself at him with a bullying air, as if the firegrate had been the furnace in which sustained endeavour was forged, and the one delicate thing to be done for the old Sydney Carton of old Shrewsbury School was to shoulder him into it, your way is, and always was, a lame way.
dickens|What a degraded and vile sight it is!
dickens|My first impulse was to call up Herbert, and show him the two men going away.
dickens|The ridges thrown to this side and to that, now crumble in and close behind the last plough as it passes on, for all are following to the Guillotine.
dickens|Hes going to ask your pals, too.
austen|For my part, I am determined never to speak of it again to anybody.
dickens|He was never absent during business hours, unless upon an errand, and then he was represented by his son a grisly urchin of twelve, who was his express image.
dickens|My faith, messieurs, I offer nothing.
austen|Though now the middle of December, there had yet been no weather to prevent the young ladies from tolerably regular exercise; and on the morrow, Emma had a charitable visit to pay to a poor sick family, who lived a little way out of Highbury.
dickens|Aha!
dickens|He was half way through it, when he again stopped with his glass in his hand, hearing the sound of wheels.
dickens|Given to government, Joe?
dickens|A pot of beer had appeared from the Jolly Bargemen, and they were sharing it by turns in a peaceable manner.
austen|The heat overcame me.
dickens|When coffee had been served and they were alone together, the nephew, looking at the uncle and meeting the eyes of the face that was like a fine mask, opened a conversation.
austen|While poor Mrs Churchill lived, I suppose there could not have been a hope, a chance, a possibility;but scarcely are her remains at rest in the family vault, than her husband is persuaded to act exactly opposite to what she would have required.
dickens|Im not a going back.
dickens|Dear boy, I done it!
austen|She knew not how to support herself, and from actual weakness sat down and cried for halfanhour.
austen|Oh!
austen|Now, however, I see nothing in it but a very natural and consistent degree of discretion.
austen|Two offenses of a very different nature, and by no means of equal magnitude, you last night laid to my charge.
austen|It can be round in five minutes.
dickens|It wasnt ending it, I suppose?
austen|Here they were interrupted by Lady Catherine, who called out to know what they were talking of.
austen|Mr Hurst had therefore nothing to do, but to stretch himself on one of the sofas and go to sleep.
dickens|Yet even when his eyes were opened on the mist and rain, on the moving patch of light from the lamps, and the hedge at the roadside retreating by jerks, the night shadows outside the coach would fall into the train of the night shadows within.
austen|From the very circumstance of its being larger, sir.
dickens|The messenger that brought it, said would you be so good as read it by my lantern?
austen|It was, indeed, a highly prized letter.
dickens|Say!
dickens|Hey?
dickens|Look at him.
dickens|Some thick old hangings had been nailed up before the windows, to deaden the sound of the shrieks.
austen|Certainly, replied he, surprized, I do not absolutely know it; but it may be inferred.
dickens|My sister was not in a very bad temper when we presented ourselves in the kitchen, and Joe was encouraged by that unusual circumstance to tell her about the bright shilling.
dickens|He had been days upon his journey in France alone, when he went to bed tired out, in a little town on the high road, still a long way from Paris.
dickens|I am busy.
dickens|This mental exercise lasted until Biddy made a rush at them and distributed three defaced Bibles shaped as if they had been unskilfully cut off the chump end of something, more illegibly printed at the best than any curiosities of literature I have since met with, speckled all over with ironmould, and having various specimens of the insect world smashed between their leaves.
dickens|There was a small chimney, heavily barred across, a few feet within.
austen|I should have been sorry, Mr Knightley, to be dependent on your recommendation, had I quitted Mr Woodhouses family and wanted another situation; I do not think you would have spoken a good word for me to any body.
dickens|Nor, how the lightest echo of their united home, directed by herself with such a wise and elegant thrift that it was more abundant than any waste, was music to her.
austen|We really seem quite the fashion.
dickens|Miss Havisham, up town?
dickens|Now, as to the future, hinted Mr Lorry.
dickens|Is there not?
dickens|Good.
austen|We were married, you know, at St.
austen|You do not blame me, however, for refusing him?
austen|Be infinitely cleverer and not half so conceited.
austen|Very well I thank you, quite well.
dickens|And Sarah Pockets there!
dickens|Get to work, get to work.
dickens|Age, about forty years; height, about five feet nine; black hair; complexion dark; generally, rather handsome visage; eyes dark, face thin, long, and sallow; nose aquiline, but not straight, having a peculiar inclination towards the left cheek; expression, therefore, sinister.
dickens|Go you in alone; I wait near.
dickens|The chateau and all the race, returned Defarge.
austen|Almost every moment.
austen|The preparing and the going abroad in such weather, with the sacrifice of his children after dinner, were evils, were disagreeables at least, which Mr John Knightley did not by any means like; he anticipated nothing in the visit that could be at all worth the purchase; and the whole of their drive to the vicarage was spent by him in expressing his discontent.
austen|And she rose as she spoke.
dickens|My sister was in her cushioned chair in her corner, and Biddy sat at her needlework before the fire, and Joe sat next Biddy, and I sat next Joe in the corner opposite my sister.
austen|This naturally introduced a panegyric from Jane on his diffidence, and the little value he put on his own good qualities.
dickens|By degrees he fell to reposing such great confidence in me, as to ask my advice in reference to his own affairs.
austen|She concluded with many good wishes that Lady Lucas might soon be equally fortunate, though evidently and triumphantly believing there was no chance of it.
dickens|said Mr Pumblechook, with his former laugh.
austen|The eldest of them, a sensible, intelligent young woman, about twentyseven, was Elizabeths intimate friend.
dickens|When we came to the riverside and sat down on the bank, with the water rippling at our feet, making it all more quiet than it would have been without that sound, I resolved that it was a good time and place for the admission of Biddy into my inner confidence.
austen|I have not the smallest hope.
dickens|A honouring and obeying wife would let his trade alone altogether.
austen|Mrs Smallridge is in a great hurry.
austen|Emmas sense of right however had decided it; and besides the consideration of what was due to each brother, she had particular pleasure, from the circumstance of the late disagreement between Mr Knightley and herself, in procuring him the proper invitation.
dickens|Say you said that, and even Joseph will probably betray surprise.
dickens|was Mrs Joes Christmas salutation, when I and my conscience showed ourselves.
dickens|Famous clients of ours that got us a world of credit.
dickens|Pay for your wine, and come out.
dickens|I hope you want nothing?
dickens|There was a delicious sense of cleaningup and making a quiet pause before going on in life afresh, in our village on Saturday nights, which stimulated Joe to dare to stay out half an hour longer on Saturdays than at other times.
dickens|A good night for cutting off in, said Orlick.
austen|A sudden seizure of a different nature from any thing foreboded by her general state, had carried her off after a short struggle.
austen|She did not regret it.
dickens|Abroad, said Miss Havisham; educating for a lady; far out of reach; prettier than ever; admired by all who see her.
dickens|In that, there seemed a faint expression of curiosity or perplexityas though he were trying to reconcile some doubts in his mind.
dickens|The limes were there, and the white thorns were there, and the chestnuttrees were there, and their leaves rustled harmoniously when I stopped to listen; but, the clink of Joes hammer was not in the midsummer wind.
austen|You forget how time passes.
austen|Lady Catherine had many other questions to ask respecting their journey, and as she did not answer them all herself, attention was necessary, which Elizabeth believed to be lucky for her; or, with a mind so occupied, she might have forgotten where she was.
austen|Your daughter Elizabeth, it is presumed, will not long bear the name of Bennet, after her elder sister has resigned it, and the chosen partner of her fate may be reasonably looked up to as one of the most illustrious personages in this land.
austen|There she satand who would have guessed how many tears she had been lately shedding?
austen|Mr Martin is now awkward and abrupt; what will he be at Mr Westons time of life?
dickens|The passage to the Conciergerie was short and dark; the night in its verminhaunted cells was long and cold.
austen|Can you imagine any thing nearer perfect beauty than Emma altogetherface and figure?
dickens|She was immediately deposed, however, by Herbert, who silently led me into the parlor and shut the door.
austen|It is unfortunate that they cannot stay longerbut it seems a case of necessity.
dickens|He had left his desk, brought out his two greasy office candlesticks and stood them in line with the snuffers on a slab near the door, ready to be extinguished; he had raked his fire low, put his hat and greatcoat ready, and was beating himself all over the chest with his safekey, as an athletic exercise after business.
dickens|I throw up.
austen|Some people even talked of a promise to his wife on her deathbed, and others of the son and the uncle not letting him.
dickens|repeated my sister, more sharply than before.
dickens|He turned at the grated door, to render the thanks of his heart; it closed under the gaolers hand; and the apparitions vanished from his sight forever.
austen|maam, but there may be a difficulty.
dickens|She said them slightingly, but not with displeasure.
dickens|Whether I really had been down in Garden Court in the dead of the night, groping about for the boat that I supposed to be there; whether I had two or three times come to myself on the staircase with great terror, not knowing how I had got out of bed; whether I had found myself lighting the lamp, possessed by the idea that he was coming up the stairs, and that the lights were blown out; whether I had been inexpressibly harassed by the distracted talking, laughing, and groaning of some one, and had half suspected those sounds to be of my own making; whether there had been a closed iron furnace in a dark corner of the room, and a voice had called out, over and over again, that Miss Havisham was consuming within it,these were things that I tried to settle with myself and get into some order, as I lay that morning on my bed.
austen|Her own thoughts were employing her.
austen|My aunt told me so herself on Saturday.
dickens|The brother distrusted and disliked her, and his influence was all opposed to her; she stood in dread of him, and in dread of her husband too.
dickens|If you knowed, dear boy, he said to me, what it is to sit here alonger my dear boy and have my smoke, arter having been day by day betwixt four walls, youd envy me.
dickens|I took the indentures out of his hand and gave them to Miss Havisham.
dickens|This I would not hear of, so he took the top, and I faced him.
austen|She could not imagine what business he could have in town so soon after his arrival in Hertfordshire; and she began to fear that he might be always flying about from one place to another, and never settled at Netherfield as he ought to be.
austen|thought Emma, he would have done as much for Harriet.
dickens|You wont answer the question, yes or no?
dickens|And here I may remark that when Mr Wopsle referred to me, he considered it a necessary part of such reference to rumple my hair and poke it into my eyes.
austen|I hate to see you standing about by yourself in this stupid manner.
dickens|He tried to prepare himself in vain; perhaps the effort to prepare himself made him less able to bear it.
dickens|The passage was a long one, and seemed to pervade the whole square basement of the Manor House.
dickens|said Drummle.
dickens|As for the roof he vaunted, he might have found that shutting out the sky in a new wayto wit, for ever, from the eyes of the bodies into which its lead was fired, out of the barrels of a hundred thousand muskets.
dickens|I noticed, too, that several rings and seals hung at his watchchain, as if he were quite laden with remembrances of departed friends.
austen|I did not thoroughly understand what you were telling your brother,  cried Emma, about your friend Mr Grahams intending to have a bailiff from Scotland, to look after his new estate.
dickens|Under its influence and perhaps to make up for the want of the softer feeling I was seized with a violent indignation against the assailant from whom she had suffered so much; and I felt that on sufficient proof I could have revengefully pursued Orlick, or any one else, to the last extremity.
dickens|As I put my glass to my lips, he glanced with surprise at the end of his neckerchief, dropping from his mouth when he opened it, and stretched out his hand.
dickens|Yes, Mr Lorry.
dickens|Compeyson is the man who professed to be Miss Havishams lover.
austen|Elizabeth tried to join in her fathers pleasantry, but could only force one most reluctant smile.
dickens|Being by this time a perfect Fury and a complete success, she made a dash at the door which I had fortunately locked.
austen|In short, my dear aunt, I should be very sorry to be the means of making any of you unhappy; but since we see every day that where there is affection, young people are seldom withheld by immediate want of fortune from entering into engagements with each other, how can I promise to be wiser than so many of my fellowcreatures if I am tempted, or how am I even to know that it would be wisdom to resist?
dickens|It fell out that he was thus engaged in a season when crowds were few, and belated women few, and when his affairs in general were so unprosperous as to awaken a strong suspicion in his breast that Mrs Cruncher must have been flopping in some pointed manner, when an unusual concourse pouring down Fleetstreet westward, attracted his attention.
dickens|Herbert will go regularly between us, and when the time comes you may be certain I shall be ready.
austen|Nobody had any information to give; and, after a few more wonderings, Emma said,  You are silent, Miss Fairfaxbut I hope you mean to take an interest in this news.
dickens|As I watched him in silence, he put his hand into the corner at his side, and took up a gun with a brassbound stock.
dickens|Sixtythree today.
austen|The upstart pretensions of a young woman without family, connections, or fortune.
dickens|The Sheep of the prisons turned from him to Sydney Carton, and said, with more decision, It has come to a point.
dickens|I did the same; and if I had turned myself upside down before drinking, the wine could not have gone more direct to my head.
austen|very far from it, I assure you.
austen|The lastborn has as good a right to the pleasures of youth as the first.
austen|She had fully proposed being engaged by Mr Wickham for those very dances; and to have Mr Collins instead!
austen|The varieties of handwriting were farther talked of, and the usual observations made.
dickens|Well!
dickens|But he never justified himself by a hint tending that way, or tried to bend the past out of its eternal shape.
dickens|No it doesnt; I assure you it doesnt.
austen|Our little room so honoured!
dickens|Handel, said Herbert, stopping, you feel convinced that you can take no further benefits from him; do you?
dickens|Whats his goods, father?
dickens|Miss Havishams relation.
austen|Mrs Collins welcomed her friend with the liveliest pleasure, and Elizabeth was more and more satisfied with coming when she found herself so affectionately received.
dickens|Particularly?
austen|His pride, in that direction, may be of service, if not to himself, to many others, for it must only deter him from such foul misconduct as I have suffered by.
austen|He had been at the pains of consulting Mr Perry, the apothecary, on the subject.
dickens|Had a drop, Joe?
dickens|So at last began the Evening Paper at La Force.
austen|It was on the weddingday of this beloved friend that Emma first sat in mournful thought of any continuance.
austen|But however insincere you may choose to be, you shall not find me so.
austen|She began now to comprehend that he was exactly the man who, in disposition and talents, would most suit her.
dickens|But if you have any objection, this is the time to mention it.
austen|NoI cannot call them gifts; but they are things that I have valued very much.
dickens|said Defarge.
austen|I have not been used to submit to any persons whims.
austen|I cannot forget the follies and vices of others so soon as I ought, nor their offenses against myself.
austen|Natural enough!
dickens|Does Madame go with us?
dickens|As if it was not a favour to be protected from the lampiron!
dickens|In the meantime, Mrs Joe put clean white curtains up, and tacked a new flowered flounce across the wide chimney to replace the old one, and uncovered the little state parlor across the passage, which was never uncovered at any other time, but passed the rest of the year in a cool haze of silver paper, which even extended to the four little white crockery poodles on the mantelshelf, each with a black nose and a basket of flowers in his mouth, and each the counterpart of the other.
dickens|The time came, without bringing with it any relief to my feelings, and the company came.
austen|It was so long since Emma had been at the Abbey, that as soon as she was satisfied of her fathers comfort, she was glad to leave him, and look around her; eager to refresh and correct her memory with more particular observation, more exact understanding of a house and grounds which must ever be so interesting to her and all her family.
dickens|Madame Defarge knitted steadily, but the intelligence had a palpable effect upon her husband.
austen|Say that urgent business calls us home immediately.
dickens|I entered, therefore, and found myself in a pretty large room, well lighted with wax candles.
austen|The room in which the ladies sat was backwards.
austen|Now, an attachment to Harriet Smith would have nothing to encounter.
austen|In spite of this little rub, however, Emma was smiling with enjoyment, delighted to see the respectable length of the set as it was forming, and to feel that she had so many hours of unusual festivity before her.
dickens|Alas!
austen|I will say no more about him, cried Emma, you turn every thing to evil.
austen|How much his business engrosses him already is very plain from the circumstance of his forgetting to inquire for the book you recommended.
dickens|Thereupon he shook his head and tapped it, expressing his sense of deficiency in Joseph.
austen|here it comes.
austen|She had had many a hint from Mr Knightley and some from her own heart, as to her deficiencybut none were equal to counteract the persuasion of its being very disagreeable,a waste of timetiresome womenand all the horror of being in danger of falling in with the secondrate and thirdrate of Highbury, who were calling on them for ever, and therefore she seldom went near them.
austen|I am excessively fond of music, but without the smallest skill or right of judging of any bodys performance.
austen|From Harriets happening not to be at Hartfield, and her fathers being present to engage Mr Elton, she had a quarter of an hour of the ladys conversation to herself, and could composedly attend to her; and the quarter of an hour quite convinced her that Mrs Elton was a vain woman, extremely well satisfied with herself, and thinking much of her own importance; that she meant to shine and be very superior, but with manners which had been formed in a bad school, pert and familiar; that all her notions were drawn from one set of people, and one style of living; that if not foolish she was ignorant, and that her society would certainly do Mr Elton no good.
dickens|asks Mr Lorry, looking out at window.
dickens|We begin to close in upon em about dusk.
austen|I wonder you should think it possible for me to have such feelings.
austen|We were just in time; my mother just ready for us.
austen|During his present short stay, Emma had barely seen him; but just enough to feel that the first meeting was over, and to give her the impression of his not being improved by the mixture of pique and pretension, now spread over his air.
austen|Well, Mr Knightley, and so you actually saw the letter; well  It was shortmerely to announcebut cheerful, exulting, of course.
dickens|Another pause of oblivion, and he awoke in the sombre morning, unconscious where he was or what had happened, until it flashed upon his mind, this is the day of my death!
dickens|The craving man on the jury rubbed his hands together, and restored the usual hand to his mouth.
dickens|said Wemmick, rubbing his hands.
dickens|The sweet scents of the summer night rose all around him, and rose, as the rain falls, impartially, on the dusty, ragged, and toilworn group at the fountain not far away; to whom the mender of roads, with the aid of the blue cap without which he was nothing, still enlarged upon his man like a spectre, as long as they could bear it.
dickens|observed Mr Lorry, beamingly adjusting his little wig, that seems probable, too.
austen|You are prepared for the worst, I seeand very bad it is.
dickens|I know nothing of days of the week; I know nothing of weeks of the year.
austen|Oh!
dickens|That girls hard and haughty and capricious to the last degree, and has been brought up by Miss Havisham to wreak revenge on all the male sex.
austen|You are extremely kind, said Jane; but I cannot give up my early walk.
dickens|Mr Pumblechooks boy, maam.
dickens|said Estella, preserving her attitude of indifference as she leaned against the great chimneypiece and only moving her eyes; do you reproach me for being cold?
austen|Quite delightful; so many friends!
dickens|Ours was the marsh country, down by the river, within, as the river wound, twenty miles of the sea.
austen|She was in hopes that the evening would afford some opportunity of bringing them together; that the whole of the visit would not pass away without enabling them to enter into something more of conversation than the mere ceremonious salutation attending his entrance.
dickens|Old Orlick bullied and beat, eh?
austen|You could not give me a greater reproof for the mistake I fell into.
austen|When I have a house of my own, I shall be miserable if I have not an excellent library.
dickens|I interposed, as Herbert paused.
austen|What did you look forward to?
dickens|His employer would not allow him to be drunk.
dickens|Defarge, who had been uneasily biting his thumbnail and looking at her, collected his face into a sterner expression.
dickens|I might have been too reserved, and should have patronized her more though I did not use that precise word in my meditations with my confidence.
austen|Did she know?
dickens|The Doctor shaded his forehead with his hand, and beat his foot nervously on the ground.
dickens|retorted Drummle.
austen|she was not so easily to be talked out of it.
dickens|And so do I.
dickens|said Carton, with a careless wave of his hand, as if he waved that away.
austen|It is impossible that he should still love me.
dickens|So much the better.
dickens|Two other passengers, besides the one, were plodding up the hill by the side of the mail.
austen|My dear Miss Woodhouse, said the latter, I am just run across to entreat the favour of you to come and sit down with us a little while, and give us your opinion of our new instrument; you and Miss Smith.
dickens|Monseigneur, one of the great lords in power at the Court, held his fortnightly reception in his grand hotel in Paris.
dickens|It cannot be, my child; there is no Time there, and no trouble there.
dickens|If it will do you any good, Mr Carton, if it would make you happier, it would make me very glad!
dickens|I dare say you wonder at me, Mr Pip; indeed, I see you do.
austen|I shall certainly be at leisure.
dickens|After which, Joe withdrew to the window, and stood with his back towards me, wiping his eyes.
austen|Are you quite sure, maam?
austen|I will have nothing to do with it.
dickens|He, yielding under the pressure of a complicated something, long dreaded and long vaguely foreseen and contended against, and recovering after the cloud had burst and passed, I should hope that the worst was over.
austen|He is very obliging, said Emma; but is he sure that Harriet means to marry him?
dickens|All this time I had never been able to consider my own situation, nor could I do so yet.
dickens|You did.
austen|My advice, said Mrs Weston kindly and persuasively, I certainly do feel tempted to give.
austen|Mr Wickhams adieus were much more affectionate than his wifes.
dickens|I must think a moment.
dickens|By the surgeons directions, her bed was carried into that room and laid upon the great table, which happened to be well suited to the dressing of her injuries.
dickens|A brother.
dickens|And she is a she, I suppose?
dickens|If I had taken a hackneychariot and gone by the streets, I should have missed my aim; going as I did, I caught the coach just as it came out of the yard.
dickens|We come next, to mere details of arrangement.
dickens|Every pulse and heart in Saint Antoine was on highfever strain and at highfever heat.
austen|6.
dickens|You do not know it, Joseph, having no call to know it, but that man do.
austen|I know your disposition, Lizzy.
dickens|Really, Mr Carton, returned the other, oddly disconcerted, I have not asked myself the question.
dickens|Herbert and Startop were to get to London by land, as soon as they could.
austen|I do not know.
dickens|Yes, I assented.
dickens|Before we departed from that spot, four soldiers standing in a ring, fired twice into the air.
austen|Had it been your uncles doing, I must and would have paid him; but these violent young lovers carry every thing their own way.
austen|He was declared to be in debt to every tradesman in the place, and his intrigues, all honoured with the title of seduction, had been extended into every tradesmans family.
austen|They agreed that Mrs Bennet should only hear of the departure of the family, without being alarmed on the score of the gentlemans conduct; but even this partial communication gave her a great deal of concern, and she bewailed it as exceedingly unlucky that the ladies should happen to go away just as they were all getting so intimate together.
austen|This is quite the season indeed for friendly meetings.
dickens|Sometimes, we strike into the skirting mud, to avoid the stones that clatter us and shake us; sometimes, we stick in ruts and sloughs there.
dickens|said Monsieur Defarge to himself; I dont know you.
dickens|What I was chained to, and how heavily, became intelligible to me, as I heard his hoarse voice, and sat looking up at his furrowed bald head with its iron gray hair at the sides.
dickens|retorted Joe.
dickens|Of course he knew about my father from his connection with Miss Havisham.
austen|When the time proposed drew near, Mrs Westons fears were justified in the arrival of a letter of excuse.
austen|you answer as discreetly as she could do herself.
dickens|I had cut my knuckles against the pale young gentlemans teeth, and I twisted my imagination into a thousand tangles, as I devised incredible ways of accounting for that damnatory circumstance when I should be haled before the Judges.
dickens|I shall fire!
dickens|One was taken from me, with a warning, yesterday.
austen|I always say, we are quite blessed in our neighbours.
austen|When first he entered the corps, she was ready enough to admire him; but so we all were.
dickens|That is the fact.
austen|I was certainly very far from expecting them to make so strong an impression.
dickens|She was too much occupied then with fears for the brother who so little deserved her affection, and with Sydneys friendly reassurances, adequately to heed what she observed.
austen|I wish you could have heard how she talked of itwith what candour and generosity.
dickens|to do it.
austen|A better written letter, Harriet returning it, than I had expected.
dickens|Miss Manette, look upon the prisoner.
austen|They talked of his sister, his friends, his house, his fruitof everything but himself; yet Elizabeth was longing to know what Mrs Gardiner thought of him, and Mrs Gardiner would have been highly gratified by her nieces beginning the subject.
dickens|Well?
austen|It crossed my mind immediately that you would not regret your friends leaving Highbury, for the sake of her being settled so well.
austen|Impossible!
dickens|Awful!
dickens|I remained quiet.
austen|But he paid her not the smallest attention till her grandfathers death made her mistress of this fortune.
austen|Sir William had been delighted with him.
austen|Dear Emma bears every thing so well, said her father.
dickens|Mr Jaggers looked at me inquiringly, and repeated Mother?
austen|After a good many compliments to Jane on her dress and look, compliments very quietly and properly taken, Mrs Elton was evidently wanting to be complimented herselfand it was, How do you like my gown?
dickens|Thus, we came to the village.
dickens|Surely.
austen|As soon as all had ate, and the elder ones paid, the carriage was ordered; and after some contrivance, the whole party, with all their boxes, workbags, and parcels, and the unwelcome addition of Kittys and Lydias purchases, were seated in it.
austen|ThereI have saved you the trouble of accounting for it; and really, all things considered, I begin to think it perfectly reasonable.
austen|No, indeed, I have no doubts at all on that head.
dickens|I must not urge them too much; it would rouse suspicion.
dickens|Very well, said I, much relieved, then I shall look you up at Walworth, you may depend upon it.
dickens|Had he inherited it?
austen|Elizabeth was exceedingly pleased with this proposal, and felt persuaded of her sisters ready acquiescence.
dickens|Therefore, I naturally pointed to Mrs Joe, and put my mouth into the form of saying, her?
dickens|they do very well here?
dickens|I should think it was a strong point, said Herbert, and I should think you would be puzzled to imagine a stronger; as to the rest, you must bide your guardians time, and he must bide his clients time.
austen|She was vexed.
dickens|He was quite incapable of any compassionate feeling about the boy, or about his fate.
dickens|I never could have believed it without experience, but as Joe and Biddy became more at their cheerful ease again, I became quite gloomy.
austen|Certainlyvery strong it was; to own the truth, a great deal stronger than, if I had been Miss Campbell, would have been at all agreeable to me.
austen|There was one part especially, the opening of it, which I should dread your having the power of reading again.
austen|Though it is difficult, said Jane, to guess in what way he can mean to make us the atonement he thinks our due, the wish is certainly to his credit.
austen|I cannot believe it.
dickens|Thats quartering, said Jerry.
dickens|If it ever becomes mine, it shall be put into some hands better qualified to free it slowly if such a thing is possible from the weight that drags it down, so that the miserable people who cannot leave it and who have been long wrung to the last point of endurance, may, in another generation, suffer less; but it is not for me.
dickens|I can hear, said Miss Pross, seeing that he spoke to her, nothing.
dickens|All the others who were waiting saw him at the same time, and there was quite a rush at him.
dickens|What is there in that fellow in the corner yonder,to use your words,that I need look at?
dickens|Yes; he had better be taken to her.
dickens|It was so with all of us, but with no one more than Drummle the development of whose inclination to gird in a grudging and suspicious way at the rest, was screwed out of him before the fish was taken off.
dickens|Gentlemenmy wife!
dickens|Not over and above, dear boy.
austen|Besides, there was truth in his looks.
austen|My reproofs at Hunsford could not work such a change as this.
austen|It was too wretched!
dickens|Lookee here, Pip.
dickens|She reserved it for me to restore the desolate house, admit the sunshine into the dark rooms, set the clocks agoing and the cold hearths ablazing, tear down the cobwebs, destroy the vermin,in short, do all the shining deeds of the young Knight of romance, and marry the Princess.
dickens|I have.
dickens|Lord bless me!
dickens|Lucie.
austen|The two Abbots and I ran into the front room and peeped through the blind when we heard he was going by, and Miss Nash came and scolded us away, and staid to look through herself; however, she called me back presently, and let me look too, which was very goodnatured.
austen|It is such a spur to ones genius, such an opening for wit, to have a dislike of that kind.
austen|I could not imagine how you could possibly do without her.
austen|Oh!
dickens|My esteemed Mr Cruncher, let us think!
austen|But why should you be sorry, sir?
dickens|Supposed by convicts.
dickens|Miss Pross looked up, saw what it was, struck at it, struck out a flash and a crash, and stood aloneblinded with smoke.
dickens|Yes, hard of hearing; having that infirmity coming upon me, my son he went into the Law, and he took charge of me, and he by little and little made out this elegant and beautiful property.
austen|If he could stay only a couple of days, he ought to come; and one can hardly conceive a young mans not having it in his power to do as much as that.
dickens|The lookout was kept, long after all was still again and the two steamers were gone; but everybody knew that it was hopeless now.
austen|Well, papa, if this is not encouragement to marry, I do not know what is.
austen|It was my brother Gardiners drawing up too, and I wonder how he came to make such an awkward business of it.
austen|Only my pattern gown is at Hartfield.
dickens|Again Tellsons was a munificent house, and extended great liberality to old customers who had fallen from their high estate.
dickens|He and I are great friends now.
austen|I think they will neither of them do the other any good.
austen|He did not know what was come to his master lately, he said, but he could hardly ever get the speech of him.
austen|Do not you recollect?
austen|I have done with you from this very day.
dickens|When she left offand she had not laughed languidly, but with real enjoymentI said, in my diffident way with her,  I hope I may suppose that you would not be amused if they did me any harm.
dickens|Quite.
austen|Lydia declared herself satisfied.
dickens|Oh!
austen|Heaven forbid!
dickens|There, too, I was again left to wander about as I liked.
dickens|I told you I should be disagreeable.
austen|Oh!
dickens|So much the worse!
dickens|When I got up, on the surgeons coming to her with other aid, I was astonished to see that both my hands were burnt; for, I had no knowledge of it through the sense of feeling.
austen|Why could he not keep on quarreling with you, as his father did before him?
austen|He then sat down by her, and talked scarcely to anyone else.
dickens|Call Estella.
austen|I am sure I never suspected it, you did it so naturally.
dickens|I was usually at Hammersmith about half the week, and when I was at Hammersmith I haunted Richmond, whereof separately by and by.
dickens|Carton stooped to pick up the coat, which lay almost entangling his feet.
dickens|and departed with the words reproachfully delivered Boy!
austen|However, your coming just at this time is the greatest of comforts, and I am very glad to hear what you tell us, of long sleeves.
dickens|There were many women at that time, upon whom the time laid a dreadfully disfiguring hand; but, there was not one among them more to be dreaded than this ruthless woman, now taking her way along the streets.
dickens|No, said Defarge.
austen|His behaviour was attentive and kind to the utmost.
dickens|muttered her husband.
austen|Could Colonel Forster repeat the particulars of Lydias note to his wife?
dickens|The united vastness and distinctness of this view so struck him, that he no longer asked if he might shake hands with me, but said he really must,and did.
dickens|Ill say gallantry.
dickens|Saint Antoine had been, that morning, a vast dusky mass of scarecrows heaving to and fro, with frequent gleams of light above the billowy heads, where steel blades and bayonets shone in the sun.
dickens|But there is no one there.
dickens|I say, when you began it, it was hard enough; not that I have any fault to find with Doctor Manette, except that he is not worthy of such a daughter, which is no imputation on him, for it was not to be expected that anybody should be, under any circumstances.
austen|Because you were grave and silent, and gave me no encouragement.
austen|He delivered these papers to John, at his chambers, and was asked by him to join their party the same evening to Astleys.
dickens|My Lord inquired of Mr Stryver the prisoners counsel, whether they were next to try Mr Carton name of my learned friend for treason?
austen|Caroline is incapable of wilfully deceiving anyone; and all that I can hope in this case is that she is deceiving herself.
dickens|As he looked at the fire, I thought I saw a cunning expression, followed by a halflaugh, come into his face.
dickens|We found a new set of people lingering outside, but Wemmick made a way among them by saying coolly yet decisively, I tell you its no use; he wont have a word to say to one of you; and we soon got clear of them, and went on side by side.
austen|I have no hesitation in saying, replied Mr Elton, though hesitating a good deal while he spoke; I have no hesitation in sayingat least if my friend feels at all as I doI have not the smallest doubt that, could he see his little effusion honoured as I see it, looking at the book again, and replacing it on the table, he would consider it as the proudest moment of his life.
dickens|I divined that my coming had stopped conversation in the room, and that its other occupants were looking at me.
austen|Sir William, how can you tell such a story?
austen|I am afraid, Mr Darcy, observed Miss Bingley in a half whisper, that this adventure has rather affected your admiration of her fine eyes.
dickens|The picturesque doctors daughter, Miss Manette.
dickens|Greatly too much for him.
dickens|His sufferings were hailed with the greatest joy by a knot of spectators, and I felt utterly confounded.
dickens|I took advantage of the momentI had sought one from the firstto leave the room, after beseeching Estellas attention to her, with a movement of my hand.
austen|They sang together once more; and Emma would then resign her place to Miss Fairfax, whose performance, both vocal and instrumental, she never could attempt to conceal from herself, was infinitely superior to her own.
dickens|Therefore, when the breakfast was done and cleared away, and he and the Doctor were left together, Mr Lorry said, feelingly  My dear Manette, I am anxious to have your opinion, in confidence, on a very curious case in which I am deeply interested; that is to say, it is very curious to me; perhaps, to your better information it may be less so.
austen|He had no idea of me.
austen|Many a time has Selina said, when she has been going to Bristol, I really cannot get this girl to move from the house.
dickens|But I must have lost it longer than I had thought, since, although I could recognize nothing in the darkness and the fitful lights and shadows of our lamps, I traced marsh country in the cold damp wind that blew at us.
dickens|So they wouldnt have much, I observed, even if they  Ah!
dickens|Look over your hand carefully, Mr Barsad.
dickens|Not at cards again?
austen|My dear madam, replied he, let us be for ever silent on this point.
dickens|Perhaps it is Provis?
austen|Yes; but he seemed to like his second better.
dickens|Our punch was cooling in an ornamental lake, on whose margin the bower was raised.
austen|Well, pretty good news, is not it?
dickens|What are you hooroaring at?
austen|She was then interrupted by Harriets coming in; and if Harriets praise could have satisfied her, she might soon have been comforted.
dickens|I began to think, said Mr Lorry, pushing his brown wig back, that I should have to pass the night at Tellsons.
dickens|I wrote it before I went to bed, and went out and posted it; and again no one was near me.
dickens|The real genuine One!
dickens|The hovel of a cutter of wood into lengths for burning, was the only house at that end; all else was wall.
austen|But there is, I believe, in many men, especially single men, such an inclinationsuch a passion for dining outa dinner engagement is so high in the class of their pleasures, their employments, their dignities, almost their duties, that any thing gives way to itand this must be the case with Mr Elton; a most valuable, amiable, pleasing young man undoubtedly, and very much in love with Harriet; but still, he cannot refuse an invitation, he must dine out wherever he is asked.
dickens|Once more?
dickens|I should be an inconvenience at Joes; I was not expected, and my bed would not be ready; I should be too far from Miss Havishams, and she was exacting and mightnt like it.
dickens|murdered his master, and, considering that he wasnt brought up to evidence, didnt plan it badly.
dickens|Who taught me to be hard?
dickens|Now I wont have it.
austen|You must grant me that.
dickens|We found that a steamer for Hamburg was likely to suit our purpose best, and we directed our thoughts chiefly to that vessel.
austen|said she.
dickens|In my hunger for information, I made proposals to Mr Wopsle to bestow some intellectual crumbs upon me, with which he kindly complied.
dickens|Some hopeful notion of seeing her, busily engaged in her daily duties, before she saw me, had been in my mind and was defeated.
dickens|said Sarah, with a dismal shake of the head; they had better be wiser, than well.
austen|who would willingly have gone through the world without believing that so much wickedness existed in the whole race of mankind, as was here collected in one individual.
austen|The evil of the actual disparity in their ages and Mr Woodhouse had not married early was much increased by his constitution and habits; for having been a valetudinarian all his life, without activity of mind or body, he was a much older man in ways than in years; and though everywhere beloved for the friendliness of his heart and his amiable temper, his talents could not have recommended him at any time.
dickens|Mind!
dickens|Can I not recall youforgive me again!
austen|Mr and Mrs John Knightley, from having been longer than usual absent from Surry, were exciting of course rather more than the usual interest.
dickens|When we stood in the daylight alone again, Joe backed up against a wall, and said to me, Astonishing!
dickens|Bad Fortune!
dickens|For several days and nights after he was sentenced I took no rest except when I fell asleep in my chair, but was wholly absorbed in these appeals.
austen|Harriets was  Oh, what a sweet house!
dickens|If you say eligible, you are eligible.
dickens|You are well on your way to the poor wronged gentleman, and, with a fair sea voyage, and a fair land journey, you will be soon at his dear side.
austen|I never saw any thing equal to the comfort and styleCandles everywhere.
dickens|With these cries, numbers of the women, lashed into blind frenzy, whirled about, striking and tearing at their own friends until they dropped into a passionate swoon, and were only saved by the men belonging to them from being trampled under foot.
dickens|said he, making as if he would take aim at me.
austen|Lydia was bid by her two eldest sisters to hold her tongue; but Mr Collins, much offended, laid aside his book, and said  I have often observed how little young ladies are interested by books of a serious stamp, though written solely for their benefit.
dickens|Would he have been doing that?
austen|He seems every thing the fondest parent could....
dickens|Mr Darnay, good night, God bless you, sir!
dickens|Then they looked at me, and I looked at them, and they measured my head, some on em,they had better a measured my stomach,and others on em giv me tracts what I couldnt read, and made me speeches what I couldnt understand.
austen|Jane heard them with horror.
dickens|He has always kept it by him, said Mr Lorry, with an anxious look at his friend.
austen|Oh!
austen|Mrs Gardiner, who was walking arminarm with Elizabeth, gave her a look expressive of wonder.
austen|Poverty certainly has not contracted her mind I really believe, if she had only a shilling in the world, she would be very likely to give away sixpence of it; and nobody is afraid of her that is a great charm.
austen|The case is, you see, that the Campbells are going to Ireland.
dickens|Here is my knife,  throwing it to him; rip open that bed, and search the straw.
dickens|Yes.
dickens|Some, seated with drooping heads, are sunk in silent despair; again, there are some so heedful of their looks that they cast upon the multitude such glances as they have seen in theatres, and in pictures.
dickens|You know that your parents had no great possession, and that what they had was secured to your mother and to you.
austen|I do not know when I have been more shocked, said she.
dickens|said Herbert.
austen|It was exactly a scene, and exactly among people, where he had apparently least to do, and least temptation to go.
austen|Lady Catherine, said she, you have given me a treasure.
dickens|On the top of the gallows is fixed the knife, blade upwards, with its point in the air.
dickens|No, my dear friend, said he, when he had recovered wind for speech.
austen|But what can be the matter?
dickens|However, having an infirmityfor I am hard of hearing, sir  I expressed in pantomime the greatest astonishment.
dickens|I said I was glad you enjoyed it.
dickens|Lookee here, Pip.
dickens|I showed her to a nicety where I had seen her walking on the casks, that first old day, and she said, with a cold and careless look in that direction, Did I?
austen|His appearance was greatly in his favour; he had all the best part of beauty, a fine countenance, a good figure, and very pleasing address.
dickens|Certainly, said I, if you approve.
dickens|I said I had always longed for it.
austen|We must not all expect Janes good fortune.
dickens|Once habituated to his distrustful manner, said I, I have done very well.
dickens|Mr Jaggers nodded his head retrospectively two or three times, and actually drew a sigh.
dickens|At the door.
dickens|It was you, villain, said I.
dickens|I do know the Bailey.
dickens|This, said she, pointing to the long table with her stick, is where I will be laid when I am dead.
dickens|So mean is extremity, that I sometimes sent him to Hyde Park corner to see what oclock it was.
austen|I have done with matchmaking indeed.
austen|This does not apply, however, to Miss Bates; she is only too good natured and too silly to suit me; but, in general, she is very much to the taste of every body, though single and though poor.
dickens|But, he was on his feet directly, and after sponging himself with a great show of dexterity began squaring again.
dickens|Well!
austen|She was, of course, the object of their joint dislike.
dickens|There were hurried words of farewell and kindness, but the parting was soon over.
dickens|We arranged that Herbert should not come home to dinner before going to Mill Pond Bank that evening; that he should not go there at all tomorrow evening, Tuesday; that he should prepare Provis to come down to some stairs hard by the house, on Wednesday, when he saw us approach, and not sooner; that all the arrangements with him should be concluded that Monday night; and that he should be communicated with no more in any way, until we took him on board.
dickens|They seemed to be waiting for something with a dogged determination, and they looked at the Jury, but at nothing else.
austen|They are gone down to Newcastle, a place quite northward, it seems, and there they are to stay I do not know how long.
austen|Elizabeth had now but little time for conversation with her sister; for while he was present, Jane had no attention to bestow on anyone else; but she found herself considerably useful to both of them in those hours of separation that must sometimes occur.
dickens|said Mr Jaggers.
austen|This must not be, I assure you.
austen|She was very fond of singing.
austen|He begged to be shewn the house which his father had lived in so long, and which had been the home of his fathers father; and on recollecting that an old woman who had nursed him was still living, walked in quest of her cottage from one end of the street to the other; and though in some points of pursuit or observation there was no positive merit, they shewed, altogether, a goodwill towards Highbury in general, which must be very like a merit to those he was with.
dickens|How do you do, Pip?
austen|Having never even fancied herself in love before, her regard had all the warmth of first attachment, and, from her age and disposition, greater steadiness than most first attachments often boast; and so fervently did she value his remembrance, and prefer him to every other man, that all her good sense, and all her attention to the feelings of her friends, were requisite to check the indulgence of those regrets which must have been injurious to her own health and their tranquillity.
dickens|Here is Mrs Brandley.
austen|With such an opinion, in confirmation of his own, Mr Woodhouse hoped to influence every visitor of the newly married pair; but still the cake was eaten; and there was no rest for his benevolent nerves till it was all gone.
austen|She felt the engagement to be a source of repentance and misery to eachshe dissolved it.
dickens|His collected and calm manner could not prevent her blood from running cold, as he thus tried to anatomise his old condition.
dickens|Well!
austen|He was a nervous man, easily depressed; fond of every body that he was used to, and hating to part with them; hating change of every kind.
dickens|cried she, wringing her hands.
dickens|Through all my punishments, disgraces, fasts, and vigils, and other penitential performances, I had nursed this assurance; and to my communing so much with it, in a solitary and unprotected way, I in great part refer the fact that I was morally timid and very sensitive.
austen|She had instinctively turned away; but stopping on his approach, received his compliments with an embarrassment impossible to be overcome.
austen|He paused.
dickens|What private solicitude could rear itself against the deluge of the Year One of Libertythe deluge rising from below, not falling from above, and with the windows of Heaven shut, not opened!
dickens|I know that.
dickens|Only a little tired of myself, replied Estella, disengaging her arm, and moving to the great chimneypiece, where she stood looking down at the fire.
austen|She gave a slight glance round the table, and applied herself to it.
dickens|That his wicked spirit had somehow sent these messengers to mine, and that now on this stormy night he was as good as his word, and with me.
austen|My dear Jane, Mr Collins is a conceited, pompous, narrowminded, silly man; you know he is, as well as I do; and you must feel, as well as I do, that the woman who married him cannot have a proper way of thinking.
austen|These delays and disappointments are quite odious.
dickens|The Vengeance, also, highly approved.
austen|It was known that they were a little acquainted; but not a syllable of real information could Emma procure as to what he truly was.
dickens|You cant detach yourself?
austen|Such kind friends, you know, Miss Woodhouse, one must always find agreeable, though every body seemed rather fagged after the mornings party.
austen|Mrs Gardiner was surprised and concerned; but as they were now approaching the scene of her former pleasures, every idea gave way to the charm of recollection; and she was too much engaged in pointing out to her husband all the interesting spots in its environs to think of anything else.
austen|Highbury, that airy, cheerful, happylooking Highbury, would be his constant attraction.
austen|Elizabeth, who had expected to find in her as acute and unembarrassed an observer as ever Mr Darcy had been, was much relieved by discerning such different feelings.
austen|As soon as they had driven from the door, Elizabeth was called on by her cousin to give her opinion of all that she had seen at Rosings, which, for Charlottes sake, she made more favourable than it really was.
austen|I was not quite impartial in my judgment, Emmabut yet, I thinkhad you not been in the caseI should still have distrusted him.
dickens|Oh!
dickens|Yes.
austen|, and her caro sposo, and her resources, and all her airs of pert pretension and underbred finery.
dickens|Rather.
dickens|Walking here again, citizeness?
austen|Observing his second daughter employed in trimming a hat, he suddenly addressed her with  I hope Mr Bingley will like it, Lizzy.
austen|All connection between us seemed now dissolved.
austen|Mr Perry was an intelligent, gentlemanlike man, whose frequent visits were one of the comforts of Mr Woodhouses life; and upon being applied to, he could not but acknowledge though it seemed rather against the bias of inclination that weddingcake might certainly disagree with manyperhaps with most people, unless taken moderately.
austen|Her performance on the pianoforte is exquisite.
dickens|I heerd, returned Joe, as it were not Miss Havisham, old chap.
dickens|The necessity of being angry in a suppressed tone had put Mr Stryvers bloodvessels into a dangerous state when it was his turn to be angry; Mr Lorrys veins, methodical as their courses could usually be, were in no better state now it was his turn.
austen|my dear, I am quite delighted with him.
dickens|As to his shirtcollar, and his coatcollar, they were perplexing to reflect upon,insoluble mysteries both.
dickens|While we stood in the hut, he stood before the fire looking thoughtfully at it, or putting up his feet by turns upon the hob, and looking thoughtfully at them as if he pitied them for their recent adventures.
dickens|However, I temporized with myself, of coursefor, was I not wavering between right and wrong, when the thing is always done?
austen|You will not regard being tired.
austen|Then I must have dreamt itbut I was completely persuadedMiss Smith, you walk as if you were tired.
austen|I should wish it.
dickens|No, said she, and shook her head and looked about her.
dickens|Good day, monsieur.
dickens|He answered with great contempt, No.
austen|Has he so!
dickens|I have seen him but now, on his way to the Hotel de Ville, a prisoner.
austen|Can his most intimate friends be so excessively deceived in him?
austen|Elizabeth had the satisfaction of seeing her father taking pains to get acquainted with him; and Mr Bennet soon assured her that he was rising every hour in his esteem.
dickens|So, Pip!
austen|He had been too much expected by the best judges, for surprizebut there was great joy.
austen|She had a moments fear of Miss Bates keeping away from her.
dickens|Do I mean!
dickens|In the same moment, I saw the steersman of the galley lay his hand on his prisoners shoulder, and saw that both boats were swinging round with the force of the tide, and saw that all hands on board the steamer were running forward quite frantically.
austen|She is now about Miss Elizabeth Bennets height, or rather taller.
austen|Her many attractions were again dwelt on, and Caroline boasted joyfully of their increasing intimacy, and ventured to predict the accomplishment of the wishes which had been unfolded in her former letter.
austen|Were this most unequal of all connexions to take place, on her must rest all the reproach of having given it a beginning; for his attachment, she must believe to be produced only by a consciousness of Harriets;and even were this not the case, he would never have known Harriet at all but for her folly.
austen|We will go round the Park every day.
dickens|I have gone aside from my purpose; I was speaking about our being friends.
dickens|Eh well!
austen|It was the very circumstance he could have wished for.
dickens|Well, I dont know, returned Joe.
dickens|Keep near to me, Jacques Three, cried Defarge; and do you, Jacques One and Two, separate and put yourselves at the head of as many of these patriots as you can.
austen|But you are miserably behindhand.
dickens|I warnt likely to it.
austen|There is, I believe, in every disposition a tendency to some particular evila natural defect, which not even the best education can overcome.
dickens|If he appeared to be in his customary state of mind, Mr Lorry would then cautiously proceed to seek direction and guidance from the opinion he had been, in his anxiety, so anxious to obtain.
dickens|If a fools head cant express better opinions than that, said my sister, and you have got any work to do, you had better go and do it.
dickens|Woe to the man who played tricks with that Army, or got undeserved promotion in it!
austen|And what do you think she said besides?
dickens|She hung upon Estellas beauty, hung upon her words, hung upon her gestures, and sat mumbling her own trembling fingers while she looked at her, as though she were devouring the beautiful creature she had reared.
dickens|Monsieur Gabelle was the Postmaster, and some other taxing functionary united; he had come out with great obsequiousness to assist at this examination, and had held the examined by the drapery of his arm in an official manner.
austen|Mr Churchill was better than could be expected; and their first removal, on the departure of the funeral for Yorkshire, was to be to the house of a very old friend in Windsor, to whom Mr Churchill had been promising a visit the last ten years.
dickens|I take them into mine!
dickens|In the act of dipping forward as if I were going to bathe among the horses, I woke in a fright and took the question up again.
austen|Though Darcy could never receive him at Pemberley, yet, for Elizabeths sake, he assisted him further in his profession.
dickens|As these ruffians turned and turned, their matted locks now flung forward over their eyes, now flung backward over their necks, some women held wine to their mouths that they might drink; and what with dropping blood, and what with dropping wine, and what with the stream of sparks struck out of the stone, all their wicked atmosphere seemed gore and fire.
dickens|Its deplorable peculiarity was, that it was the faintness of solitude and disuse.
dickens|I wish to tell you what that is, and why I am in England.
austen|A little while ago, every letter to Isabella brought an account of fresh gaieties; dinners at Mr Coles, or balls at the Crown.
dickens|I dont know about bad blood, returned Mr Wemmick; theres not much bad blood about.
austen|said her mother.
dickens|She might have been some two or three years younger than Wemmick, and I judged her to stand possessed of portable property.
austen|Well, all I know is, that it will be abominably rude if you do not wait on him.
dickens|Yes.
dickens|Weep for her, then, and for me!
dickens|I therefore hit out at him and was going to hit out again, when he said, Aha!
dickens|But when it is ready, it takes place, and grinds to pieces everything before it.
dickens|Speak out.
dickens|Three Rums!
dickens|This gradually led to a want of toleration for him, and evenon his being detected in holy orders, and declining to perform the funeral serviceto the general indignation taking the form of nuts.
austen|He has been gone only four weeks.
dickens|There is nothing the matter?
dickens|cried my sister.
dickens|I have very often hoped and intended to come back, but have been prevented by many circumstances.
dickens|said I.
austen|She was quite struck by the likeness!
dickens|We left him bestirring himself to feed the fowls, and we sat down to our punch in the arbor; where Wemmick told me, as he smoked a pipe, that it had taken him a good many years to bring the property up to its present pitch of perfection.
dickens|Ohh!
dickens|How long would you keep me in town?
austen|She said no more, other subjects took their turn; and the rest of the dinner passed away; the dessert succeeded, the children came in, and were talked to and admired amid the usual rate of conversation; a few clever things said, a few downright silly, but by much the larger proportion neither the one nor the othernothing worse than everyday remarks, dull repetitions, old news, and heavy jokes.
dickens|Bearbear witness.
dickens|False eyebrows and false moustaches were stuck upon them, and their hideous countenances were all bloody and sweaty, and all awry with howling, and all staring and glaring with beastly excitement and want of sleep.
dickens|I then descried Mr and Mrs Hubble; the lastnamed in a decent speechless paroxysm in a corner.
dickens|Pray sit down.
austen|But no sooner was the distress known to Mr Elton, than it was removed.
austen|But self, though it would intrude, could not engross her.
dickens|repeated the gentleman bitterly.
dickens|Thats the grand thing.
austen|Having now a good house and a very sufficient income, he intended to marry; and in seeking a reconciliation with the Longbourn family he had a wife in view, as he meant to choose one of the daughters, if he found them as handsome and amiable as they were represented by common report.
austen|Frank Churchills little inclination to exclude himself increased so much, that his last words to Emma were,  Well;if you wish me to stay and join the party, I will.
dickens|I wavered again, and began to think here were greater expectations than my own.
austen|It was possible, however, that some of his companions in the shire might be able to give more information; and though she was not very sanguine in expecting it, the application was a something to look forward to.
dickens|Yes, Sydney, I have had enough of this style of life, with no other as a change from it; I feel that it is a pleasant thing for a man to have a home when he feels inclined to go to it when he doesnt, he can stay away, and I feel that Miss Manette will tell well in any station, and will always do me credit.
austen|Depend upon it, he will be much farther from doing you justice.
dickens|said Mr Jaggers, in the same devastating strain What does this fellow want?
austen|Even then, I was not such a fool as not to mean to be reconciled in time; but I was the injured person, injured by her coldness, and I went away determined that she should make the first advances.
dickens|Better to be a rational creature, he added then, after ringing a small bell on the table, and accept your natural destiny.
dickens|There was no touch of pity, sorrow, or kindred humanity, in this answer.
austen|She determined to call upon them and seek safety in numbers.
dickens|The marshes were just a long black horizontal line then, as I stopped to look after him; and the river was just another horizontal line, not nearly so broad nor yet so black; and the sky was just a row of long angry red lines and dense black lines intermixed.
austen|the sort of thing that so few men would think of.
dickens|repeated Biddy, striking in, with a momentary flush upon her face.
dickens|Sow the same seed of rapacious license and oppression over again, and it will surely yield the same fruit according to its kind.
dickens|My little portmanteau was in the boot under my feet; I had but to turn a hinge to get it out; I threw it down before me, got down after it, and was left at the first lamp on the first stones of the town pavement.
dickens|Of it?
austen|This cannot be!
austen|Elizabeth, feeling all the more than common awkwardness and anxiety of his situation, now forced herself to speak; and immediately, though not very fluently, gave him to understand that her sentiments had undergone so material a change, since the period to which he alluded, as to make her receive with gratitude and pleasure his present assurances.
austen|Catherine was disconcerted, and made no answer; but Lydia, with perfect indifference, continued to express her admiration of Captain Carter, and her hope of seeing him in the course of the day, as he was going the next morning to London.
dickens|Have you brought his indentures with you?
dickens|The learned profession of the law was certainly not behind any other learned profession in its Bacchanalian propensities; neither was Mr Stryver, already fast shouldering his way to a large and lucrative practice, behind his compeers in this particular, any more than in the drier parts of the legal race.
dickens|Dont look!
dickens|Well, Masr Jaggers, returned Mike, in the voice of a sufferer from a constitutional cold; arter a deal o trouble, Ive found one, sir, as might do.
austen|On the gentlemens appearing, her colour increased; yet she received them with tolerable ease, and with a propriety of behaviour equally free from any symptom of resentment or any unnecessary complaisance.
dickens|In a word, said Madame Defarge, coming out of her short abstraction, I cannot trust my husband in this matter.
dickens|I only wondered for the passing moment, as I stopped at the door and looked back, under what altered circumstances I should next see those rooms, if ever.
austen|Yes, they are about one hundred and ninety miles from London, a considerable journey.
austen|So early in lifeat threeandtwentya period when, if a man chuses a wife, he generally chuses ill.
austen|I believe she didand I am sure she could not have bestowed her kindness on a more grateful object.
austen|What will become of me.
dickens|But take courage; several members of our society have been in secret, at first, and it has lasted but a short time.
austen|Mr Bingley arrived.
dickens|Mr Wopsle said grace with theatrical declamation,as it now appears to me, something like a religious cross of the Ghost in Hamlet with Richard the Third,and ended with the very proper aspiration that we might be truly grateful.
austen|To yield without conviction is no compliment to the understanding of either.
dickens|The clocks are on the stroke of three, and the furrow ploughed among the populace is turning round, to come on into the place of execution, and end.
dickens|That the secret must be confided to Herbert as a matter of unavoidable necessity, even if I could have put the immense relief I should derive from sharing it with him out of the question, was plain to me.
dickens|Tell us what you mean by pretty well, boy?
austen|repeated Darcy contemptuously; yes, his misfortunes have been great indeed.
austen|She will give you all the minute particulars, which only womans language can make interesting.
dickens|I was standing by a minute, on the chance of company.
dickens|It seemed to be; he returned the look, and evidently understood it.
austen|Or a trident?
dickens|Undoubtedly.
dickens|The more I made faces and gestures to him to do it, the more confidential, argumentative, and polite, he persisted in being to Me.
austen|The happiness of this most happy day, received its completion, in the animated contemplation of his worth which this comparison produced.
dickens|If the villain had stopped here, his case would have been sufficiently awful, but he blackened his guilt by proceeding to take me into custody, with a right of patronage that left all his former criminality far behind.
dickens|I could not doubt, either, that he was there, because I was there, and that, however slight an appearance of danger there might be about us, danger was always near and active.
dickens|Not to make Joe uneasy by talking too much, even if I had been able to talk much, I deferred asking him about Miss Havisham until next day.
dickens|However, I am not going, said Charles Darnay, with a smile.
austen|Do you think it will look well?
austen|You, perhaps, might.
dickens|Yes, Joe.
dickens|She came down from her bed, to look at him in his sleep that night.
dickens|Sometimes, it was given in a tender rain of tears, and then it was, Take me to her.
austen|Harriet, tempted by every thing and swayed by half a word, was always very long at a purchase; and while she was still hanging over muslins and changing her mind, Emma went to the door for amusement.
austen|I do not remember her name among the ladies at court.
dickens|Thats good!
austen|Emma listened, and looked, and soon perceived that Frank Churchills state might be best defined by the expressive phrase of being out of humour.
austen|My poor dear Isabella, said he, fondly taking her hand, and interrupting, for a few moments, her busy labours for some one of her five childrenHow long it is, how terribly long since you were here!
dickens|Myself.
austen|What would she have said?
dickens|Another and another.
austen|In the meanwhile, she resolved against seeing Harriet.
austen|The suspicions which had just arisen of Mr Darcy and their niece directed their observation towards each with an earnest though guarded inquiry; and they soon drew from those inquiries the full conviction that one of them at least knew what it was to love.
austen|Georgiana had the highest opinion in the world of Elizabeth; though at first she often listened with an astonishment bordering on alarm at her lively, sportive, manner of talking to her brother.
austen|Yes, indeed, and received no inconsiderable pleasure from the sight.
dickens|The late Compeyson, said Wemmick, had by little and little got at the bottom of half of the regular business now transacted; and it was from the talk of some of his people in trouble some of his people being always in trouble that I heard what I did.
dickens|Well, miss?
austen|He was quite as undaunted and as lively as ever; and, after seeing him, Emma thus moralised to herself  I do not know whether it ought to be so, but certainly silly things do cease to be silly if they are done by sensible people in an impudent way.
dickens|After some delay and demur, the door grudgingly turned on its hinges a very little way, and allowed Mr Jerry Cruncher to squeeze himself into court.
dickens|Mr Lorry glanced at the distant House, and glanced at the angry Stryver.
dickens|In every line of the narrative he had heard, he had heard his condemnation.
austen|Courtshipa very good hint.
austen|Miss Bingley was very deeply mortified by Darcys marriage; but as she thought it advisable to retain the right of visiting at Pemberley, she dropt all her resentment; was fonder than ever of Georgiana, almost as attentive to Darcy as heretofore, and paid off every arrear of civility to Elizabeth.
dickens|I left him climbing to the window, and I came to tell you.
dickens|It is my own act.
dickens|For the first time the Doctor felt, now, that his suffering was strength and power.
dickens|He had a healthy colour in his cheeks, and his face, though lined, bore few traces of anxiety.
dickens|Miss Sarah Pocket, whom I now saw to be a little dry, brown, corrugated old woman, with a small face that might have been made of walnutshells, and a large mouth like a cats without the whiskers, supported this position by saying, No, indeed, my dear.
dickens|It happened, at length, that he had occasion to change the instrument in his hand, for his shoemakers knife.
austen|If one could ascertain what the chief of themthe Coles, for instance.
dickens|Drop it altogether.
dickens|Its fiveandtwenty pound, Mum, echoed that basest of swindlers, Pumblechook, rising to shake hands with her; and its no more than your merits as I said when my opinion was asked, and I wish you joy of the money!
dickens|It ought to have been finished long ago.
austen|Dont let her imagine that you have spoken of her as a pretty young woman.
dickens|Already, the mender of roads had penetrated into the midst of a group of fifty particular friends, and was smiting himself in the breast with his blue cap.
dickens|I made out from this, that the work I had to do, was to walk Miss Havisham round and round the room.
dickens|As I have told you before, I am the mere agent.
austen|It is an advantage to have it so far from this part of the kingdom.
austen|Forgive me; and if you persist in indifference, do not make me your confidante.
dickens|Yonder, said I, pointing; over there, where I found him nodding asleep, and thought it was you.
dickens|Pip, said he, putting his large hand on my shoulder and moving me to the window, I dont know one from the other.
dickens|Mr Barsad saw losing cards in it that Sydney Carton knew nothing of.
austen|I can answer for every thing of that nature, sir, because it will be under Mrs Westons care.
austen|She could not but suppose it to be a match that every body who knew them must think of.
dickens|At every jurymans vote, there was a roar.
dickens|She carried a bare candle in her hand, which she had probably taken from one of the sconces in her own room, and was a most unearthly object by its light.
dickens|I have often thought of you, said Estella.
austen|The house was larger than Hartfield, and totally unlike it, covering a good deal of ground, rambling and irregular, with many comfortable, and one or two handsome rooms.
austen|It was a subject, in short, on which reflection would be long indulged, and must be unavailing.
dickens|At least I was no party to the compact, said Estella, for if I could walk and speak, when it was made, it was as much as I could do.
austen|I would not trust you so near it as Eastbourne for fifty pounds!
dickens|The time went very slowly on, and Mr Lorrys hope darkened, and his heart grew heavier again, and grew yet heavier and heavier every day.
dickens|I nodded at the old gentleman as Wemmick himself might have nodded, and we went in and sat down by the fireside.
dickens|returned the other.
austen|I say, sir, turning to Mr Woodhouse, I think there are few places with such society as Highbury.
dickens|Yes.
dickens|I had received strict orders from my sister to call for him at the Three Jolly Bargemen, that evening, on my way from school, and bring him home at my peril.
dickens|That, the evidence of these two witnesses, coupled with the documents of their discovering that would be produced, would show the prisoner to have been furnished with lists of his Majestys forces, and of their disposition and preparation, both by sea and land, and would leave no doubt that he had habitually conveyed such information to a hostile power.
dickens|It is the only possession I have not relinquished.
dickens|You get me a file.
austen|For two or three months longer I shall remain where I am, and as I am.
dickens|Joe!
dickens|She drew an arm round my neck, and drew my head close down to hers as she sat in the chair.
dickens|He also made known to me for the first time in my life, and certainly after having kept his secret wonderfully well, that he had always said of me, That boy is no common boy, and mark me, his fortun will be no common fortun.
austen|It may do very well for the others, replied Mr Bingley; but I am sure it will be too much for Kitty.
dickens|I hoped to have left them in perfect safety, and then to have quitted Paris.
dickens|Great rents and splits branched out in the solid walls, like crystallisation; stupefied birds wheeled about and dropped into the furnace; four fierce figures trudged away, East, West, North, and South, along the nightenshrouded roads, guided by the beacon they had lighted, towards their next destination.
dickens|I would ask you to believe that he has a heart he very, very seldom reveals, and that there are deep wounds in it.
austen|Miss Bingleys congratulations to her brother, on his approaching marriage, were all that was affectionate and insincere.
dickens|I was put in irons, brought to trial again, and sent for life.
dickens|And seeing that Mr Jaggers stood quite still and silent, and apparently quite obdurate, under this appeal, I turned to Wemmick, and said, Wemmick, I know you to be a man with a gentle heart.
dickens|No, said Joe; none but a runaway convict now and then.
dickens|Bear that in mind, will you?
dickens|Handel, my dear fellow, how are you, and again how are you, and again how are you?
austen|What are Harriet Smiths claims, either of birth, nature or education, to any connexion higher than Robert Martin?
dickens|How do you choose them?
dickens|Miss Havisham sat listening or it seemed so, for I could not see her face, but still made no answer.
dickens|It was paved and clean, but grass was growing in every crevice.
austen|How often, when you were a girl, have you said to me, with one of your saucy looksMr Knightley, I am going to do soandso; papa says I may, or I have Miss Taylors leavesomething which, you knew, I did not approve.
dickens|But read the rest, Jo.
austen|no doubt she had been suffering a great deal more than any body had ever supposedand continual pain would try the temper.
dickens|look to that young lady.
austen|Were the whole arrangement complete, my disappointment would be certain.
austen|If they must dance, they had better dance at Randalls.
dickens|At last, Joes job was done, and the ringing and roaring stopped.
austen|She felt as if the spring would not pass without bringing a crisis, an event, a something to alter her present composed and tranquil state.
dickens|The general scarcity of everything, occasioned candles to be borrowed in a rather peremptory manner of Monsieur Gabelle; and in a moment of reluctance and hesitation on that functionarys part, the mender of roads, once so submissive to authority, had remarked that carriages were good to make bonfires with, and that posthorses would roast.
dickens|We passed the fingerpost, and held straight on to the churchyard.
austen|Dear Harriet!
dickens|Tomorrow night I could not think of going, for it would be too close upon the time of the flight.
dickens|Then you shall likewise know why.
austen|Very well, I thank you.
dickens|I am quite ready to stay behind.
dickens|We all looked awkwardly at the tablecloth while this was going on.
dickens|cried Lucie, affrighted.
austen|The time of year lightened the evil to him.
dickens|You are a wise counsellor.
dickens|Be firm, Herbert, I would retort, plying my own pen with great assiduity.
austen|Elizabeth was watchful enough to see it all, but she could see it and write of it without material pain.
austen|But on seeing them together, she became perfectly satisfied.
dickens|They travelled in the night, halting an hour or two after daybreak, and lying by until the twilight fell.
dickens|asked Mr Jaggers.
dickens|But, though the bank was almost always with him, and though the coach in a confused way, like the presence of pain under an opiate was always with him, there was another current of impression that never ceased to run, all through the night.
dickens|As I never saw my father or my mother, and never saw any likeness of either of them for their days were long before the days of photographs, my first fancies regarding what they were like were unreasonably derived from their tombstones.
austen|is he indeed?
austen|Not to my feelings.
austen|My mother often talks of your goodnature.
austen|You are going in, I suppose?
austen|We shall be at Newcastle all the winter, and I dare say there will be some balls, and I will take care to get good partners for them all.
austen|What do you mean, Mr Bennet, in talking this way?
dickens|I ought to have, said Herbert, for I have not much else.
dickens|Britannia metal, every spoon.
austen|She was not yet quite able to see him and his charming happy wife together, without feeling uncomfortable.
austen|In Darcys presence she dared not mention Wickhams name; but Elizabeth instantly comprehended that he was uppermost in her thoughts; and the various recollections connected with him gave her a moments distress; but exerting herself vigorously to repel the illnatured attack, she presently answered the question in a tolerably detached tone.
dickens|I hope I know my poor grandpapas position.
austen|But Mrs Bennet, who had calculated on her daughters remaining at Netherfield till the following Tuesday, which would exactly finish Janes week, could not bring herself to receive them with pleasure before.
austen|Mrs Weston ought to have found more in it, for she had a husband whose warm heart and sweet temper made him think every thing due to her in return for the great goodness of being in love with him; but though she had one sort of spirit, she had not the best.
dickens|Monseigneur often a most worthy individual gentleman was a national blessing, gave a chivalrous tone to things, was a polite example of luxurious and shining life, and a great deal more to equal purpose; nevertheless, Monseigneur as a class had, somehow or other, brought things to this.
austen|how shall I bear so much happiness!
dickens|Oh, for gracious sake!
dickens|What did all this portend, and what portended the swift hoistingup of Monsieur Gabelle behind a servant on horseback, and the conveying away of the said Gabelle doubleladen though the horse was, at a gallop, like a new version of the German ballad of Leonora?
dickens|Pray give your mind to it, and advise me well for his sakeand above all, for his daughtershis daughters, my dear Manette.
austen|Have you got any thing fresh?
austen|cried Mr Wickham with a look which did not escape her.
dickens|A change passed over Mr Trabb.
austen|Other poultryyards in the neighbourhood also suffered.
dickens|By this?
austen|As she pronounced these words, Mr Darcy changed colour; but the emotion was short, and he listened without attempting to interrupt her while she continued  I have every reason in the world to think ill of you.
dickens|There happened to be no customer in the shop but Jacques Three, of the restless fingers and the croaking voice.
austen|Miss Smith!
austen|On that article, truth seemed attainable.
dickens|Not to understand your play, returned the spy, somewhat uneasily.
austen|Sometimes Mr Elton predominated, sometimes the Martins; and each was occasionally useful as a check to the other.
dickens|Expecting Herbert all the time, I dared not go out, except when I took Provis for an airing after dark.
austen|He is very plain, undoubtedlyremarkably plainbut that is nothing compared with his entire want of gentility.
austen|Elizabeth had heard soon after her arrival that Mr Darcy was expected there in the course of a few weeks, and though there were not many of her acquaintances whom she did not prefer, his coming would furnish one comparatively new to look at in their Rosings parties, and she might be amused in seeing how hopeless Miss Bingleys designs on him were, by his behaviour to his cousin, for whom he was evidently destined by Lady Catherine, who talked of his coming with the greatest satisfaction, spoke of him in terms of the highest admiration, and seemed almost angry to find that he had already been frequently seen by Miss Lucas and herself.
austen|Your lively talents would place you in the greatest danger in an unequal marriage.
austen|Lady Lucas could not be insensible of triumph on being able to retort on Mrs Bennet the comfort of having a daughter well married; and she called at Longbourn rather oftener than usual to say how happy she was, though Mrs Bennets sour looks and illnatured remarks might have been enough to drive happiness away.
austen|She must wait a moment, or he would think her mad.
dickens|said Miss Pross.
dickens|How helping him on?
dickens|Spiies!
dickens|Lying on the flat of his back like a drifting old dead flounder, heres your old Bill Barley, bless your eyes.
austen|Unless the elder brother is very sickly, I suppose you would not ask above fifty thousand pounds.
dickens|After some helpless casting about, Mike brightened and began again  He is dressed like a spectable pieman.
dickens|At length we gave it up, and pulled under the shore towards the tavern we had lately left, where we were received with no little surprise.
dickens|Almost fearing, without knowing why, to come in view of the forge, I saw it at last, and saw that it was closed.
dickens|Ha, ha, ha!
dickens|Hey?
dickens|The magistrates shivered under a single bite of his finger.
dickens|said Mr Wemmick,except at last.
austen|She must tell you herself what she isyet not by word, for never was there a human creature who would so designedly suppress her own merit.
dickens|Touch then!
dickens|You was to honour and obey; why the devil dont you?
dickens|Well drink her health, said I.
austen|I am sure you had.
austen|You order me, whether you speak or not.
dickens|I try to be a good wife, Jerry, the poor woman protested, with tears.
dickens|But we noted down what other foreign steamers would leave London with the same tide, and we satisfied ourselves that we knew the build and color of each.
dickens|He said it with an involuntary shudder.
austen|She was shown into the breakfastparlour, where all but Jane were assembled, and where her appearance created a great deal of surprise.
dickens|Which it did not, for they continued to cry No!
dickens|He was fast asleep directly.
dickens|I broke out crying and begging pardon, and hugged Joe round the neck who dropped the poker to hug me, and to say, Ever the best of friends; ant us, Pip?
austen|I hope your good grandmama and aunt are well.
dickens|Its remarkable what mere force of grip there is in these hands.
austen|to which his prompt reply was, Most readily, Mrs Weston, if you will dance with me.
austen|and it was not wholly without foundation.
dickens|and condemned as a traitor.
austen|It was all general approbation and smoothness; nothing delineated or distinguished.
austen|Elizabeth, who had a letter to write, went into the breakfast room for that purpose soon after tea; for as the others were all going to sit down to cards, she could not be wanted to counteract her mothers schemes.
dickens|It was but natural that I should take to him much more kindly than to Drummle, and that, even in the earliest evenings of our boating, he and I should pull homeward abreast of one another, conversing from boat to boat, while Bentley Drummle came up in our wake alone, under the overhanging banks and among the rushes.
dickens|As there was full an hour and a half between me and daylight, I dozed again; now, waking up uneasily, with prolix conversations about nothing, in my ears; now, making thunder of the wind in the chimney; at length, falling off into a profound sleep from which the daylight woke me with a start.
dickens|Charles Evremonde, called Darnay, was accused by the public prosecutor as an emigrant, whose life was forfeit to the Republic, under the decree which banished all emigrants on pain of Death.
dickens|Your honour told me to call you.
dickens|Mr Lorry had just finished his dinner, and was sitting before a cheery little log or two of fireperhaps looking into their blaze for the picture of that younger elderly gentleman from Tellsons, who had looked into the red coals at the Royal George at Dover, now a good many years ago.
dickens|After several relapses into businessabsorption, Mr Lorry had become the Doctors friend, and the quiet streetcorner was the sunny part of his life.
dickens|said this lady, with an abruptness of manner quite my sisters.
dickens|Judge you!
austen|Mr Perry had been to Mrs Goddards to attend a sick child, and Miss Nash had seen him, and he had told Miss Nash, that as he was coming back yesterday from Clayton Park, he had met Mr Elton, and found to his great surprize, that Mr Elton was actually on his road to London, and not meaning to return till the morrow, though it was the whistclub night, which he had been never known to miss before; and Mr Perry had remonstrated with him about it, and told him how shabby it was in him, their best player, to absent himself, and tried very much to persuade him to put off his journey only one day; but it would not do; Mr Elton had been determined to go on, and had said in a very particular way indeed, that he was going on business which he would not put off for any inducement in the world; and something about a very enviable commission, and being the bearer of something exceedingly precious.
dickens|It was dark before we got down, and the journey seemed long and dreary to me, who could see little of it inside, and who could not go outside in my disabled state.
austen|I had supposed him to be despising his fellowcreatures in general, but did not suspect him of descending to such malicious revenge, such injustice, such inhumanity as this.
austen|Ah!
austen|His son, too well bred to hear the hint, rose immediately also, saying,  As you are going farther on business, sir, I will take the opportunity of paying a visit, which must be paid some day or other, and therefore may as well be paid now.
austen|My poor father!
austen|We will settle with your father about the money afterwards; but the things should be ordered immediately.
austen|I am always watching her to admire; and I do pity her from my heart.
dickens|I am that child, I hope, my father.
dickens|There, smoking his pipe in the old place by the kitchen firelight, as hale and as strong as ever, though a little gray, sat Joe; and there, fenced into the corner with Joes leg, and sitting on my own little stool looking at the fire, wasI again!
austen|But it ought to be done, and if you will give me a sheet of paper, it shall be done directly.
dickens|Here is monsieur, who knows a wellmade shoe when he sees one.
dickens|Not that Trabbs boy was of a malignant nature, but that he had too much spare vivacity, and that it was in his constitution to want variety and excitement at anybodys expense.
dickens|But there was no harm in his way of saying this it was said laughingly, and to beguile the time.
dickens|And to make it worse, they all asked me from time to time,in short, whenever they had nothing else to do,why I didnt enjoy myself?
austen|They would have solicited the honour earlier, but had been waiting the arrival of a foldingscreen from London, which they hoped might keep Mr Woodhouse from any draught of air, and therefore induce him the more readily to give them the honour of his company.
dickens|O my poor darlings!
austen|Only half an hour before her friend called for her at Mrs Goddards, her evil stars had led her to the very spot where, at that moment, a trunk, directed to The Rev.
austen|These are the motives which I have been pressing on you.
dickens|I then found that Wemmick was the clerk in the next room.
austen|When this information was given, and they had all taken their seats, Mr Collins was at leisure to look around him and admire, and he was so much struck with the size and furniture of the apartment, that he declared he might almost have supposed himself in the small summer breakfast parlour at Rosings; a comparison that did not at first convey much gratification; but when Mrs Phillips understood from him what Rosings was, and who was its proprietorwhen she had listened to the description of only one of Lady Catherines drawingrooms, and found that the chimneypiece alone had cost eight hundred pounds, she felt all the force of the compliment, and would hardly have resented a comparison with the housekeepers room.
dickens|He gave his arm to his daughter, and took her downstairs to the chariot which Mr Lorry had hired in honour of the day.
dickens|Thank ye.
austen|I knew nothing at all of Lady Catherines connections.
dickens|Shes coming to the bed.
austen|You are quite a visit in my debt, Mr Bingley, she added, for when you went to town last winter, you promised to take a family dinner with us, as soon as you returned.
dickens|Now, Joe kept a journeyman at weekly wages whose name was Orlick.
dickens|said Mrs Joe, stamping her foot.
dickens|It got there in course of time; insisted on pouring into the burialground; finally, accomplished the interment of the deceased Roger Cly in its own way, and highly to its own satisfaction.
dickens|I cried, struggling.
austen|You will hardly bear to be long outdone by Jane.
austen|Mrs Gardiner, to whom the chief of this news had been given before, in the course of Jane and Elizabeths correspondence with her, made her sister a slight answer, and, in compassion to her nieces, turned the conversation.
austen|Nothing had ever suggested it before, but they felt that there was no other way of accounting for such attentions from such a quarter than by supposing a partiality for their niece.
austen|They seem not able to do any thing without him.
austen|to be only just tolerable.
austen|I should be as ready to acknowledge his merits as any other man; but I hear of none, except what are merely personal; that he is wellgrown and goodlooking, with smooth, plausible manners.
austen|You may depend on it, replied the other, for Mrs Nicholls was in Meryton last night; I saw her passing by, and went out myself on purpose to know the truth of it; and she told me that it was certain true.
dickens|Similarly, during two or three hours of drawl, and the winnowing of many bushels of words, Madame Defarges frequent expressions of impatience were taken up, with marvellous quickness, at a distance the more readily, because certain men who had by some wonderful exercise of agility climbed up the external architecture to look in from the windows, knew Madame Defarge well, and acted as a telegraph between her and the crowd outside the building.
austen|Emma was very compassionate; and the distresses of the poor were as sure of relief from her personal attention and kindness, her counsel and her patience, as from her purse.
austen|My dear Lizzy, do not give way to such feelings as these.
austen|Your attendance upon her has been too much for you.
dickens|Ill tell you, however, said I, whether you want to know or not.
austen|His dancing proved to be just what she had believed it, extremely good; and Harriet would have seemed almost too lucky, if it had not been for the cruel state of things before, and for the very complete enjoyment and very high sense of the distinction which her happy features announced.
dickens|You have loved yourself; let your old love speak for me!
dickens|It is you, Monseigneur!
dickens|Good night, citizen, said Sydney Carton, pausing in going by; for, the man eyed him inquisitively.
dickens|Herbert was rarely there less frequently than three times in a week, and he never brought me a single word of intelligence that was at all alarming.
dickens|, or otherways Havisham.
dickens|Louder, the woman recommends.
austen|He is to be in town next week, if not sooner.
austen|He had returned to a late dinner, after some days absence, and now walked up to Hartfield to say that all were well in Brunswick Square.
dickens|Some whisper this, some whisper that; they speak of nothing else; even the fountain appears to fall to that tune.
austen|I am perfectly satisfied, replied Emma, with the brightest smiles, and most sincerely wish them happy.
austen|She likes to have the distinction of rank preserved.
austen|With an air of indifference he soon afterwards added  How long did you say he was at Rosings?
dickens|When one of em says to another, He was a convict, a few year ago, and is a ignorant common fellow now, for all hes lucky, what do I say?
austen|or under what misrepresentation can you here impose upon others?
dickens|And his wife and child.
dickens|and Joe whispered to me, Id give a shilling if they had cut and run, Pip.
dickens|Miss Havisham had seen him as soon as I, and was like everybody else afraid of him.
dickens|I signified that he was addressing Mr Pip.
dickens|I am sure it does no good.
austen|Mrs Weston kissed her with tears of joy; and when she could find utterance, assured her, that this protestation had done her more good than any thing else in the world could do.
dickens|Then, turning to me, Served His Majesty this man.
dickens|Surely, surely.
dickens|And the worst was, that I must decide quickly, or I should miss the afternoon coach, which would take me down in time for tonight.
austen|I have blamed you, and lectured you, and you have borne it as no other woman in England would have borne it.
dickens|Mrs Southcott had recently attained her fiveandtwentieth blessed birthday, of whom a prophetic private in the Life Guards had heralded the sublime appearance by announcing that arrangements were made for the swallowing up of London and Westminster.
austen|He is undoubtedly very much in loveevery thing denotes itvery much in love indeed!
dickens|I wish for your sake Mr Barsad was not a Sheep of the Prisons.
austen|I always told you he would be here again soon, did not I?
dickens|Now, blacksmith!
austen|Do not you remember one morning?
austen|And Elizabeth, too.
dickens|It was in the early morning after my arrival that I entertained this speculation.
dickens|said Defarge, with grim impatience.
dickens|she said.
austen|I hope we may often meet again.
austen|Darcy made no answer.
austen|Look at the tree.
dickens|She looked up at me suddenly, only moving her eyes, and repeated in a grimly playful manner,  Well?
dickens|And Ill tell you where from.
dickens|Biddy, said I, I think you might have written to me about these sad matters.
austen|I am not helpless.
austen|In fact, it does not concern youit concerns only myself,that is, we hope.
austen|I believed you to be wishing, expecting my addresses.
dickens|She wanders about in the night, and then lays hands on such food as she takes.
dickens|It was not merely desirable to avoid overloading the coach, but it was of the highest importance that the time occupied in examining it and its passengers, should be reduced to the utmost; since their escape might depend on the saving of only a few seconds here and there.
dickens|Willingly.
dickens|In conjunction with Miss Pross, he took immediate steps towards the latter precaution, by giving out that the Doctor was not well, and required a few days of complete rest.
dickens|Hold the horses!
dickens|Look around and consider the lives of all the world that we know, consider the faces of all the world that we know, consider the rage and discontent to which the Jacquerie addresses itself with more and more of certainty every hour.
austen|Miss Fairfax knows it is not from the Campbells, or they would have been guessed at first.
austen|Of having another daughter married to Mr Collins, she thought with equal certainty, and with considerable, though not equal, pleasure.
austen|He thanked her, observing, How lucky that we should arrive at the same moment!
dickens|Ill look him up and go to work for you.
austen|Her sisters were uneasy for her, but her mother was delighted.
austen|I went over the fields toospeaking in a tone of great illusage, which made it so much the worse.
austen|They seemed more like cheerful, easy friends, than lovers.
dickens|Arthur lived at the top of Compeysons house over nigh Brentford it was, and Compeyson kept a careful account agen him for board and lodging, in case he should ever get better to work it out.
austen|Nothing was to be done that he did not do himself; though I am sure and I do not speak it to be thanked, therefore say nothing about it, your uncle would most readily have settled the whole.
dickens|Since this house strikes you old and grave, boy, said Miss Havisham, impatiently, and you are unwilling to play, are you willing to work?
austen|He had business at the Crown about his hay, and a great many errands for Mrs Weston at Fords, but he need not hurry any body else.
dickens|Why, its on the tip of your tongue.
austen|But before she had been three minutes in her own room, her mother followed her.
austen|Jane did not look round.
austen|Your neighbourhood is increasing, and you mix more with it.
dickens|I have been a Bastille prisoner.
dickens|Altogether, the Old Bailey, at that date, was a choice illustration of the precept, that Whatever is is right; an aphorism that would be as final as it is lazy, did it not include the troublesome consequence, that nothing that ever was, was wrong.
dickens|It is so, assented Defarge again.
dickens|A perfect fleet, said he.
austen|NoI shall not stir.
dickens|Warning not to be attracted by you, do you mean, Estella?
austen|She sat intently at work, striving to be composed, and without daring to lift up her eyes, till anxious curiosity carried them to the face of her sister as the servant was approaching the door.
dickens|Not a doubt of that I thought.
dickens|I entertain a conviction, based upon large experience, that if in the days of my prosperity I had gone to the North Pole, I should have met somebody there, wandering Esquimaux or civilized man, who would have told me that Pumblechook was my earliest patron and the founder of my fortunes.
austen|She had known, it seems, of their being in love with each other, many weeks.
austen|Many of his expressions were still fresh in her memory.
austen|Mr Knightley was to dine with themrather against the inclination of Mr Woodhouse, who did not like that any one should share with him in Isabellas first day.
austen|The park was very large, and contained great variety of ground.
austen|When I wrote that letter, replied Darcy, I believed myself perfectly calm and cool, but I am since convinced that it was written in a dreadful bitterness of spirit.
austen|Sir William Lucas, and his daughter Maria, a goodhumoured girl, but as emptyheaded as himself, had nothing to say that could be worth hearing, and were listened to with about as much delight as the rattle of the chaise.
austen|Do you prefer reading to cards?
austen|Ah!
austen|Now, however, we must wish you and Mrs Bates good morning.
austen|I hope she does.
dickens|What were you brought up to be?
austen|This is a wretched beginning indeed!
austen|By Elizabeths instructions, she began to comprehend that a woman may take liberties with her husband which a brother will not always allow in a sister more than ten years younger than himself.
dickens|Rather mean to borrow under those circumstances, I should say.
austen|where shall we sit?
austen|repeated Mrs Elton.
austen|Mr Bingleys defense of his friend was a very able one, I dare say; but since he is unacquainted with several parts of the story, and has learnt the rest from that friend himself, I shall venture to still think of both gentlemen as I did before.
dickens|Herbert remonstrated.
austen|Mrs Perry had told somebody, and was extremely happy about it.
dickens|Hastily written on the paper was the word ACQUITTED.
austen|Elizabeth could not see Lady Catherine without recollecting that, had she chosen it, she might by this time have been presented to her as her future niece; nor could she think, without a smile, of what her ladyships indignation would have been.
dickens|And so again, twenty, fifty times over, What had she done!
austen|Three oclock yesterday!
dickens|To the best of my understanding, and bads the best, youll tell me, said Miss Pross, softened by the tone of the apology, he is afraid of the whole subject.
dickens|Oh!
dickens|Tell me how long it takes to prepare the earthquake?
dickens|And I hear them!
austen|But while I visit at Hartfield, and you are so kind to me, Miss Woodhouse, I am not afraid of what any body can do.
dickens|In his expostulation he dropped his cleaner hand perhaps accidentally, perhaps not upon the jokers heart.
austen|The Crown!
austen|Mr Weston had accompanied her to Mrs Batess, and gone through his share of this essential attention most handsomely; but she having then induced Miss Fairfax to join her in an airing, was now returned with much more to say, and much more to say with satisfaction, than a quarter of an hour spent in Mrs Batess parlour, with all the encumbrance of awkward feelings, could have afforded.
dickens|asked the sergeant, confidentially.
austen|They were combined only of anger against herself, mortification, and deep concern.
austen|He could not speak a word for full ten minutes.
dickens|What else could I do?
dickens|Am I pretty?
austen|Miss Eliza Bennet, said Miss Bingley, despises cards.
dickens|They said of him, about the city that night, that it was the peacefullest mans face ever beheld there.
dickens|Instantly, Miss Skiffins stopped it with the neatness of a placid boxer, took off that girdle or cestus as before, and laid it on the table.
dickens|Thirty horses stood in his stables, twentyfour male domestics sat in his halls, six bodywomen waited on his wife.
austen|Charlotte the wife of Mr Collins was a most humiliating picture!
austen|Jane, dont you remember grandmamas telling us of it when we got home?
dickens|Mr Lorry opened his hands, and extended them outwards with an argumentative smile.
dickens|What do I know?
dickens|Going back to my window, I could see the two men moving over the marsh.
austen|A readyfurnished house in a favourite spot was engaged, and much benefit expected from the change.
austen|We must go in the carriage, to be sure.
austen|Kitty and I are going up stairs to sit in my dressingroom.
dickens|For me.
austen|My dear madam, he replied, this invitation is particularly gratifying, because it is what I have been hoping to receive; and you may be very certain that I shall avail myself of it as soon as possible.
dickens|When I got back to my breakfast in the Boars coffeeroom, I found Mr Pumblechook conversing with the landlord.
dickens|We thought it best that he should stay in his own rooms; and we left him on the landing outside his door, holding a light over the stairrail to light us downstairs.
austen|We have not met since the 26th of November, when we were all dancing together at Netherfield.
dickens|But when they came to the town of Beauvaiswhich they did at eventide, when the streets were filled with peoplehe could not conceal from himself that the aspect of affairs was very alarming.
dickens|For I believed one of two other persons to have become possessed of it, and to have turned it to this cruel account.
austen|Harriet was very ready to speak of the share he had had in their moonlight walks and merry evening games; and dwelt a good deal upon his being so very goodhumoured and obliging.
dickens|Shall I do well, in the mean time, to show myself?
dickens|Thats a Blazing strange answer, too,  said he, at his hoarsest.
dickens|Im your second father.
dickens|I see that child who lay upon her bosom and who bore my name, a man winning his way up in that path of life which once was mine.
austen|Elizabeth longed to observe that Mr Bingley had been a most delightful friend; so easily guided that his worth was invaluable; but she checked herself.
austen|Her care and attention could not be questioned; they were, in fact, only too great.
austen|Mr Knightley, however, shewed no triumphant happiness.
austen|I doubt whether he will return the compliment, and discover her to be a lady.
dickens|that this woman was so very artfully dressed from the time of her apprehension, that she looked much slighter than she really was; in particular, her sleeves are always remembered to have been so skilfully contrived that her arms had quite a delicate look.
dickens|And yet his wife trembled, and a vague but heavy fear was upon her.
austen|The regularity and despatch of it!
dickens|It happened sometimes that in the mere escape of a fatigued mind, I dozed for some moments or forgot; then I would say to myself with a start, Now it has come, and I am turning delirious!
dickens|Carton, who smelt of port wine, and did not appear to be quite sober, laughed then, and turned to Darnay  This is a strange chance that throws you and me together.
dickens|They wont interfere with you, sir.
austen|They are known to no human being, I guess, but herself.
dickens|He did this so that nobody but I saw the file; and when he had done it he wiped the file and put it in a breastpocket.
austen|If they believed him attached to me, they would not try to part us; if he were so, they could not succeed.
austen|Every body must be aware that Miss Taylor must be missed, but every body ought also to be assured that Mr and Mrs Weston do really prevent our missing her by any means to the extent we ourselves anticipatedwhich is the exact truth.
dickens|But if you thought, Herbert, that you could, without doing any injury to your business, leave the question open for a little while  For any while, cried Herbert.
dickens|Put the case, Pip, that here was one pretty little child out of the heap who could be saved; whom the father believed dead, and dared make no stir about; as to whom, over the mother, the legal adviser had this power I know what you did, and how you did it.
austen|Your retrospections must be so totally void of reproach, that the contentment arising from them is not of philosophy, but, what is much better, of innocence.
austen|You do not appear so well satisfied with his letter as I am; but still you must, at least I hope you must, think the better of him for it.
austen|I beg your pardon, sir.
austen|Ah!
austen|Early, I know, you had none.
dickens|Dear Doctor Manette, always knowing this, always seeing her and you with this hallowed light about you, I have forborne, and forborne, as long as it was in the nature of man to do it.
austen|You mistake me, you quite mistake me, she replied, exerting herself.
austen|Yes I should, I am sure I should.
dickens|Herbert was highly delighted when we shook hands on this arrangement, and said he could now take courage to tell me that he believed he must go away at the end of the week.
dickens|said I.
dickens|This answer had a happy effect upon the audience.
austen|Daughters are never of so much consequence to a father.
dickens|When he put his tools aside as useless, until morning, Mr Lorry rose and said to him  Will you go out?
dickens|The energy which had at once supported him under his old sufferings and aggravated their sharpness, had been gradually restored to him.
dickens|She had some faint hopes that his mediation might save Charles, but they were very slight.
dickens|Mr Lorry had not thought of that, and he looked quickly at Carton to see if it were in his mind.
dickens|She was a good girl.
dickens|Different gangs and different ships.
austen|asked Isabella in the plaintive tone which just suited her father.
dickens|How much?
austen|Well, Lizzy, said Mrs Bennet one day, what is your opinion now of this sad business of Janes?
dickens|Only two sets of them.
dickens|Once for all.
dickens|He returned the answer in great trouble, and very slowly.
austen|There is nothing to be compared to it.
dickens|So successful a watch and ward had been established over the young lady by this judicious parent, that she had grown up highly ornamental, but perfectly helpless and useless.
dickens|If I had any such possibility, even at a remote distance of years, harboured in my thoughts, and hidden in my heartif it ever had been thereif it ever could be thereI could not now touch this honoured hand.
austen|You consentI hope you consent?
austen|It had a most favourable aspect; and, for half a minute, Emma felt the glory of having schemed successfully.
dickens|He slowly shook the shadow off, and turned to her.
austen|But you see that Jane, said her aunt, does not think so very ill of Wickham as to believe him capable of the attempt.
austen|Theres for you!
dickens|Pardon, Monsieur the Marquis!
dickens|If I, as a honest tradesman, succeed in providing a jinte of meat or two, none of your not touching of it, and sticking to bread.
austen|Speak to Lizzy about it yourself.
austen|You begged hard to be commanded to come.
austen|There could hardly be a happier creature in the world than Mrs John Knightley, in this short visit to Hartfield, going about every morning among her old acquaintance with her five children, and talking over what she had done every evening with her father and sister.
austen|And do you like her?
austen|He had followed them purposely to town, he had taken on himself all the trouble and mortification attendant on such a research; in which supplication had been necessary to a woman whom he must abominate and despise, and where he was reduced to meet, frequently meet, reason with, persuade, and finally bribe, the man whom he always most wished to avoid, and whose very name it was punishment to him to pronounce.
austen|How you must have hated me after that evening?
austen|I think it admirable; and, as far as I can answer for myself, shall be most happyIt seems the only improvement that could be.
austen|In that respect how unlike dear Mrs Elton, who wants to be wiser and wittier than all the world!
austen|It did appearthere was no concealing itexactly like the pretence of being in love with her, instead of Harriet; an inconstancy, if real, the most contemptible and abominable!
dickens|My old pain has given me a power that has brought us through the barrier, and gained us news of Charles there, and brought us here.
austen|Mr Wingfield thinks the vicinity of Brunswick Square decidedly the most favourable as to air.
austen|Lydia was exceedingly fond of him.
austen|My beauty you had early withstood, and as for my mannersmy behaviour to you was at least always bordering on the uncivil, and I never spoke to you without rather wishing to give you pain than not.
dickens|Old Orlick hes been a bustin open a dwellingouse.
dickens|At once ferocious and maudlin, I was made to murder my uncle with no extenuating circumstances whatever; Millwood put me down in argument, on every occasion; it became sheer monomania in my masters daughter to care a button for me; and all I can say for my gasping and procrastinating conduct on the fatal morning, is, that it was worthy of the general feebleness of my character.
dickens|As if he could possibly be there!
dickens|You know that I am always with him to the full extent of the time allowed, and that I should be with him all day long, if I could.
austen|Her father, contented with laughing at them, would never exert himself to restrain the wild giddiness of his youngest daughters; and her mother, with manners so far from right herself, was entirely insensible of the evil.
austen|Will you give me leave to defer your raptures till I write again?
dickens|As the boat so favoured is usually in a rough plight, and mostly under water, so, Sydney had a swamped life of it.
austen|And we mean to treat you all, added Lydia, but you must lend us the money, for we have just spent ours at the shop out there.
dickens|Herbert, who had been looking at the fire and pondering, here said that something had come into his thoughts arising out of Wemmicks suggestion, which it might be worth while to pursue.
austen|How Harriet could ever have had the presumption to raise her thoughts to Mr Knightley!
dickens|Mr Pumblechook was in favor of a handsome premium for binding me apprentice to some genteel trade,say, the corn and seed trade, for instance.
austen|The wish of procuring her regard, which she had assured herself of his feeling in Derbyshire, could not in rational expectation survive such a blow as this.
austen|You, to Emma, I am certain, will never guess.
austen|Yes; these four evenings have enabled them to ascertain that they both like Vingtun better than Commerce; but with respect to any other leading characteristic, I do not imagine that much has been unfolded.
dickens|Something had gone wrong with him; at least, so Young Jerry inferred, from the circumstance of his holding Mrs Cruncher by the ears, and knocking the back of her head against the headboard of the bed.
dickens|It was a dressingroom, as I supposed from the furniture, though much of it was of forms and uses then quite unknown to me.
dickens|His employer would see to that, sir.
austen|It was a journey of only twentyfour miles, and they began it so early as to be in Gracechurch Street by noon.
dickens|In the terror of seeing the figure, and in the terror of being certain that it had not been there a moment before, I at first ran from it, and then ran towards it.
dickens|That, presented by his conductors to this Tribunal, he had announced himself by name and profession as having been for eighteen years a secret and unaccused prisoner in the Bastille; that, one of the body so sitting in judgment had risen and identified him, and that this man was Defarge.
dickens|Both of which, said Joe, quite charmed with his logical arrangement, being done, now this to you a true friend, say.
austen|At least, therefore, I did not assume the character of needless precipitance merely to show off before the ladies.
dickens|He told us that he held the whole house, but rarely used more of it than we saw.
dickens|He never thought of Carton.
dickens|the only time you worked out, in this part of the country?
dickens|He moves more; he is beginning to revive, and to speak intelligibly; he thinks they are still together; he asks him, by his name, what he has in his hand.
austen|It is odd though, observed his father, that you should have had such a regular connected dream about people whom it was not very likely you should be thinking of at Enscombe.
austen|She was engaged one day as she walked, in perusing Janes last letter, and dwelling on some passages which proved that Jane had not written in spirits, when, instead of being again surprised by Mr Darcy, she saw on looking up that Colonel Fitzwilliam was meeting her.
dickens|Bless your eyes, heres old Bill Barley.
dickens|It was not to be shuffled off now, however, and I answered, The beautiful young lady at Miss Havishams, and shes more beautiful than anybody ever was, and I admire her dreadfully, and I want to be a gentleman on her account.
austen|That is the most unforgiving speech, said Elizabeth, that I ever heard you utter.
austen|Middling, my dear; I cannot compliment you.
dickens|Why, yes, dear boy, its as good as another,unless youd like another.
austen|If you do not call early it will be a slight.
austen|Jane came back delighted yesterday.
dickens|It was but the inquiry of his first confusion and astonishment, the answer being obvious.
austen|As I must therefore conclude that you are not serious in your rejection of me, I shall choose to attribute it to your wish of increasing my love by suspense, according to the usual practice of elegant females.
austen|It would be such a delicious scheme; and I dare say would hardly cost anything at all.
dickens|said the coachman.
austen|He was her dear Wickham on every occasion; no one was to be put in competition with him.
austen|Compliments always take you by surprise, and me never.
austen|Emma learned to be rather glad that there had been such a meeting.
dickens|More fit for that, I think, than to remain in this city, so dreadful to him.
austen|While Mary is adjusting her ideas, he continued, let us return to Mr Bingley.
austen|Mr Knightley, why do not you stay at home like poor Mr Elton?
dickens|I made the admission with reluctance, for it seemed to have a boyish look, and she already treated me more than enough like a boy.
dickens|He was happy in the return he had made her, he was recompensed for his suffering, he was proud of his strength.
austen|With a little reserve of manner, Emma continued  You mean to return a favourable answer, I collect.
austen|Have patience with me, I shall soon have done.
dickens|Ask Wemmick his opinion.
dickens|Now, I aint alone, as you may think I am.
dickens|He had not put them there first.
dickens|But this boy, you know; we must have him bound.
dickens|If you had, pursued Mr Lorry, perhaps you would attend to it.
dickens|No, said the old gentleman; the warehousing, the warehousing.
dickens|Orlick sometimes growled, Beat it out, beat it out,Old Clem!
dickens|One other nod.
austen|Very little white satin, very few lace veils; a most pitiful business!
austen|No; it would have been strange if they had; but I make no doubt they often talk of it between themselves.
dickens|Nor yet we cant no more hold their tide than I can hold this.
austen|The advice was followed readily, for the feverish symptoms increased, and her head ached acutely.
austen|said Mrs Bennet more than once, as if the credit of making it rain were all her own.
austen|She was even sensible of some pleasure, though mixed with regret, on finding how steadfastly both she and her uncle had been persuaded that affection and confidence subsisted between Mr Darcy and herself.
dickens|You can be when you choose?
austen|This did not want much of being finished, when I put it away in a pet, and vowed I would never take another likeness.
dickens|He had time to finish these letters before the lights were put out.
dickens|Of course you have seen him then?
dickens|Seeing it, he poured out and drank another glassful.
dickens|Mr Pumblechook then put me through my pencetable from twelve pence make one shilling, up to forty pence make three and fourpence, and then triumphantly demanded, as if he had done for me, Now!
austen|so far off!
austen|It was Mr Collinss picture of Hunsford and Rosings rationally softened; and Elizabeth perceived that she must wait for her own visit there to know the rest.
dickens|Shall I show her to you?
dickens|asked Lucie.
dickens|So strong was the impression, that I stood under the beam shuddering from head to foot before I knew it was a fancy,though to be sure I was there in an instant.
dickens|Where?
dickens|Well!
dickens|He will never prosper in his inheritance otherwise.
dickens|At length the new postilions are in their saddles, and the old are left behind.
dickens|Yours, said the gaoler.
dickens|We are both good watermen, Handel, and could take him down the river ourselves when the right time comes.
dickens|But her father cheered her, and said at last, gently disengaging himself from her enfolding arms, Take her, Charles!
dickens|The intention with which he had done what he had done, even although he had left it incomplete, presented it before him in an aspect that would be gratefully acknowledged in France on his presenting himself to assert it.
dickens|For, he contended with himself that it was impossible to foresee what that lady might pretend next; and he felt assured that if she should take it into her brightly ornamented head to pretend that she had seen him do a murder and afterwards flay the victim, she would infallibly go through with it until the play was played out.
austen|At present, indeed, they were well supplied both with news and happiness by the recent arrival of a militia regiment in the neighbourhood; it was to remain the whole winter, and Meryton was the headquarters.
austen|Imagine the shock; imagine how, till I had actually detected my own blunder, I raved at the blunders of the post.
austen|I shall do something to expose myself.
dickens|I speak, miss, of twenty years ago.
dickens|In that light, however, I soon lost them, and, feeling very cold, lay down to think of the matter, and fell asleep again.
dickens|You was a spywitness at the Bailey.
dickens|Whats that to you?
austen|Kitty has no discretion in her coughs, said her father; she times them ill.
austen|I have heard him speak with great animation of a large family of young ladies that his sisters are intimate with, who have all twenty thousand pounds apiece.
austen|I am sure I know none so handsome; but in the gallery up stairs you will see a finer, larger picture of him than this.
austen|I have been walking all this way in complete suspense.
austen|Kitty, who took all these threats in a serious light, began to cry.
dickens|Or a eel!
dickens|said I.
dickens|It was not difficult for one who knew the city well, to find his house without asking any question.
austen|I do not by any means engage for its being returned.
austen|How long had Mr Knightley been so dear to her, as every feeling declared him now to be?
dickens|We were taking the course I had begun with, and from which I had diverged in the mist.
austen|I think they judge wisely.
dickens|Would it be weakness to return my love?
dickens|Shall I go on, sir?
dickens|I took the tablets from her hand, and it trembled again, and it trembled more as she took off the chain to which the pencil was attached, and put it in mine.
dickens|Having the reason that I had for being suspicious, I even suspected this poor actor.
dickens|They were not agreed, and wished to retire.
dickens|Joe offered no answer, poor fellow, but stood feeling his whisker and looking dejectedly at me, as if he thought it really might have been a better speculation.
austen|And so excellent in the Church!
dickens|That, his position and attitude were, on the whole, sublime.
austen|replied Kitty, it looks just like that man that used to be with him before.
dickens|Did the woman keep her oath?
austen|Frank Churchills character was not desperate.
austen|Mr Bennet indeed said little; but the ladies were ready enough to talk, and Mr Collins seemed neither in need of encouragement, nor inclined to be silent himself.
dickens|These, the people tore to pieces and scattered far and wide with great enjoyment, while the tradesmen hurriedly shut up their shops; for a crowd in those times stopped at nothing, and was a monster much dreaded.
dickens|Kiss our child for me.
austen|He looked as if he fully understood and honoured such a sentiment.
dickens|When I ask what I am to call myself today, Herbert, I went on, I suggest what I have in my thoughts.
dickens|I have seen it, Herbert, and dreamed of it, ever since the fatal night of his arrival.
dickens|Estella, to the last hour of my life, you cannot choose but remain part of my character, part of the little good in me, part of the evil.
austen|Her ignorance is hourly flattery.
austen|All was acknowledged, and half the night spent in conversation.
dickens|However, it was decided at last the Grove being a Court of Honor that if Mr Drummle would bring never so slight a certificate from the lady, importing that he had the honor of her acquaintance, Mr Pip must express his regret, as a gentleman and a Finch, for having been betrayed into a warmth which.
austen|Nothing should separate her from her father.
austen|Emma could have wished Mrs Elton elsewhere; but she was in a humour to have patience with every body; and as Mrs Elton met her with unusual graciousness, she hoped the rencontre would do them no harm.
dickens|Of course she did so purposely, and knew that I should treasure it up.
dickens|The only spark of encouragement in the case, was, that my hand upon the sufferers breast had this much soothing influence, that for minutes at a time it tranquillised the figure.
dickens|said her father, stopping in his story, and laying his hand on hers, command yourself.
dickens|It was ten oclock at night when he stood before the prison of La Force, where she had stood hundreds of times.
austen|Before they were separated by the conclusion of the play, she had the unexpected happiness of an invitation to accompany her uncle and aunt in a tour of pleasure which they proposed taking in the summer.
austen|I made her take her shawlfor the evenings are not warmher large new shawl Mrs Dixons weddingpresent.
dickens|Miss Estella.
austen|I had no intention, I thought I had no power of staying more than five minutes, when I first entered the house.
austen|He was as much awake to the novelty of attention in that quarter as Elizabeth herself could be, and unconsciously closed his book.
austen|I could never, I confess, from your manners, assure myself as to the degree of what you feltI could only be certain that there was a preferenceand a preference which I never believed him to deserve.
austen|Poor Kitty has anger for having concealed their attachment; but as it was a matter of confidence, one cannot wonder.
dickens|But you cant help groaning, my dear Handel.
dickens|, Bankers, London, England.
dickens|Even when he had satisfied himself that he was awake, Mr Lorry felt giddily uncertain for some few moments whether the late shoemaking might not be a disturbed dream of his own; for, did not his eyes show him his friend before him in his accustomed clothing and aspect, and employed as usual; and was there any sign within their range, that the change of which he had so strong an impression had actually happened?
austen|Do you sit where you like?
dickens|This led to Mr Wopsles who had never been heard of before coming in with a star and garter on, as a plenipotentiary of great power direct from the Admiralty, to say that the Swabs were all to go to prison on the spot, and that he had brought the boatswain down the Union Jack, as a slight acknowledgment of his public services.
austen|The latter part of this address was scarcely heard by Darcy; but Sir Williams allusion to his friend seemed to strike him forcibly, and his eyes were directed with a very serious expression towards Bingley and Jane, who were dancing together.
austen|I have not even made any inquiry; I do not wish to make any yet.
dickens|Yes, thank you.
dickens|Mr Stryver then called his few witnesses, and Mr Cruncher had next to attend while Mr AttorneyGeneral turned the whole suit of clothes Mr Stryver had fitted on the jury, inside out; showing how Barsad and Cly were even a hundred times better than he had thought them, and the prisoner a hundred times worse.
dickens|The two men looked at one another as Mr Jaggers waved them behind again, and humbly fell back and were heard no more.
austen|We will be down as soon as we can, said Jane; but I dare say Kitty is forwarder than either of us, for she went up stairs half an hour ago.
dickens|As the concentrated expression returned to his forehead, he seemed to become conscious that it was in hers too.
dickens|Now, the stake I have resolved to play for, in case of the worst, is a friend in the Conciergerie.
dickens|Once again he touched him on the breast, as though his finger were the fine point of a small sword, with which, in delicate finesse, he ran him through the body, and said,  My friend, I will die, perpetuating the system under which I have lived.
dickens|I am as unhappy as you can ever have meant me to be.
austen|Mr Darcy called, and was shut up with him several hours.
dickens|He took up another that was lying by him, and asked what it was.
austen|Mr Darcy took her place by her niece, and they walked on together.
dickens|His name is Abel Magwitch, otherwise Provis.
dickens|When are you likely to have seen these dread powers, Doctor Manette?
austen|Nonsense!
dickens|A little while, and he was always in pursuit of her, and he and I crossed one another every day.
dickens|I prefer to form my own opinion, without the aid of his.
austen|Younger sons cannot marry where they like.
austen|You are very kind, I am sure; and I wish with all my heart it may prove so, for else they will be destitute enough.
austen|There is a stubbornness about me that never can bear to be frightened at the will of others.
dickens|It would have been cruel in Miss Havisham, horribly cruel, to practise on the susceptibility of a poor boy, and to torture me through all these years with a vain hope and an idle pursuit, if she had reflected on the gravity of what she did.
austen|Do you think it incredible that Mr Collins should be able to procure any womans good opinion, because he was not so happy as to succeed with you?
austen|The carriage came and Mr Woodhouse, always the first object on such occasions, was carefully attended to his own by Mr Knightley and Mr Weston; but not all that either could say could prevent some renewal of alarm at the sight of the snow which had actually fallen, and the discovery of a much darker night than he had been prepared for.
dickens|But, in the composure of his manner he was unaltered, except that to the shrewd glance of Mr Lorry it disclosed some shadowy indication that the old air of avoidance and dread had lately passed over him, like a cold wind.
dickens|I have had enough of witnesses today and tonight; whos your pretty witness?
dickens|I thought, my father, said Lucie, excusing herself, with a pale face and in a faltering voice, that I heard strange feet upon the stairs.
dickens|Yours, ESTELLA.
austen|well, that must be infinitely provoking!
dickens|Hush, dear!
austen|I am sorry to hear that; but why did not you tell me that before?
austen|Could there be finer symptoms?
austen|His wife gave him a look which invited him in; and, while he was coming round, added, Now, dearest Emma, let me intreat you to say and look every thing that may set his heart at ease, and incline him to be satisfied with the match.
austen|The room at the Crown was to witness it;but it would be better than a common meeting in a crowd.
austen|And then, her reserveI never could attach myself to any one so completely reserved.
austen|She will follow wherever Lydia leads.
austen|Very well, I thank you, maam.
dickens|Awakened by a timid local functionary and three armed patriots in rough red caps and with pipes in their mouths, who sat down on the bed.
austen|It would have spared her, she thought, one sleepless night out of two.
dickens|Here Mr Wopsle was divesting himself of his Danish garments, and here there was just room for us to look at him over one anothers shoulders, by keeping the packingcase door, or lid, wide open.
austen|He positively said that it had been known to no being in the world but their two selves.
dickens|Miss Havisham was good enough to ask me, I returned, whether she could do nothing for me, and I told her No.
dickens|Turn me in some other direction before I go.
austen|Oh!
austen|Still, however, having proceeded so far, one is unwilling to give the matter up.
austen|He meant I believe, replied Jane, to go to Epsom, the place where they last changed horses, see the postilions and try if anything could be made out from them.
austen|Well, cried her mother, it is all very right; who should do it but her own uncle?
dickens|I have not bestowed my tenderness anywhere.
dickens|Manette!
austen|I am sorry it went off.
dickens|Is the lady anybody?
dickens|said my sister.
dickens|Joes forge adjoined our house, which was a wooden house, as many of the dwellings in our country were,most of them, at that time.
dickens|Now, Joseph Gargery, I am the bearer of an offer to relieve you of this young fellow your apprentice.
austen|However, as they are so very desirous to have dear Emma dine with them, and as you will both be there, and Mr Knightley too, to take care of her, I cannot wish to prevent it, provided the weather be what it ought, neither damp, nor cold, nor windy.
dickens|The carriage was then so far in advance of me that two gentlemen had time to open the door and alight before I came up with it.
austen|Jane looked a little paler than usual, but more sedate than Elizabeth had expected.
austen|He had been in love with Emma, and jealous of Frank Churchill, from about the same period, one sentiment having probably enlightened him as to the other.
dickens|Wednesday being so close upon us, we determined to go back to London that night, three in the postchaise; the rather, as we should then be clear away before the nights adventure began to be talked of.
dickens|I conceived the idea that the time when the banns were read and when the clergyman said, Ye are now to declare it!
dickens|My poor Handel, I hurt you!
austen|The appearance of the servants looking out for them to give notice of the carriages was a joyful sight; and even the bustle of collecting and preparing to depart, and the solicitude of Mrs Elton to have her carriage first, were gladly endured, in the prospect of the quiet drive home which was to close the very questionable enjoyments of this day of pleasure.
austen|He certainly looked at her friend a great deal, but the expression of that look was disputable.
austen|and I have often wishedbut it is so little one can venture to dosmall, trifling presents, of any thing uncommonNow we have killed a porker, and Emma thinks of sending them a loin or a leg; it is very small and delicateHartfield pork is not like any other porkbut still it is porkand, my dear Emma, unless one could be sure of their making it into steaks, nicely fried, as ours are fried, without the smallest grease, and not roast it, for no stomach can bear roast porkI think we had better send the legdo not you think so, my dear?
austen|After sitting a little while with Jane, on Miss Bingleys appearance and invitation, the mother and three daughters all attended her into the breakfast parlour.
dickens|So proud, so proud!
dickens|Not recollecting myself, I began again that I was much obliged to him for his recommendation  No, my young friend, he interrupted, shaking his head and frowning and smiling both at once,no, no, no; its very well done, but it wont do; you are too young to fix me with it.
dickens|I hope I am doing nothing wrong in asking it again?
dickens|One was a taller and stouter man than the other, and appeared as a matter of course, according to the mysterious ways of the world, both convict and free, to have had allotted to him the smaller suit of clothes.
dickens|He had seen the prisoner show these identical lists to French gentlemen at Calais, and similar lists to French gentlemen, both at Calais and Boulogne.
austen|He smiled, and assured her that whatever she wished him to say should be said.
dickens|The punch being very nice, we sat there drinking it and talking, until it was almost nine oclock.
austen|Not a creature knowing it but themselvesneither the Campbells, nor her family, nor his.
dickens|I have so settled down in their home, that its not at all likely.
austen|Lydia gaped as he opened the volume, and before he had, with very monotonous solemnity, read three pages, she interrupted him with  Do you know, mamma, that my uncle Phillips talks of turning away Richard; and if he does, Colonel Forster will hire him.
dickens|I and my husband have enough to do to keep this wineshop open, without thinking.
dickens|If you are saved, your child is saved too; if you are lost, your child is still saved.
austen|she would not give him such a troublesome office for the world,brought on the desired repetition of entreaties and assurances,and a very few minutes settled the business.
austen|We always say what we like to one another.
dickens|I called to the woman who had opened the gate when I entered, that I would not trouble her just yet, but would walk round the place before leaving.
dickens|I opened it, the watchman holding up his light, and read inside, in Wemmicks writing,  DONT GO HOME.
dickens|He relinquished them with an agreeable smile, and combated with the door as if it were a wild beast.
austen|While waiting till the other young people could pair themselves off, Emma found time, in spite of the compliments she was receiving on her voice and her taste, to look about, and see what became of Mr Knightley.
dickens|And over where her hearts brokeyou broke it!
austen|His dejection was most evident.
austen|When he was again in their company, he could not help remembering what he had seen; nor could he avoid observations which, unless it were like Cowper and his fire at twilight,  Myself creating what I saw,  brought him yet stronger suspicion of there being a something of private liking, of private understanding even, between Frank Churchill and Jane.
austen|Jane was not deceived, but she was affected; and though feeling no reliance on her, could not help writing her a much kinder answer than she knew was deserved.
austen|There were misunderstandings between them, Emma; he said so expressly.
austen|She hated having visitors in the house while her health was so indifferent, and lovers were of all people the most disagreeable.
austen|Her dirty petticoat quite escaped my notice.
austen|It was very little less.
dickens|I answered, No.
austen|We are so very airy!
dickens|He called himself for the plaintiff, there was no getting over his evidence, the counsel for the defendant threw up his brief, and the jury did not even turn to consider.
austen|You know Miss Fairfaxs situation in life, I conclude; what she is destined to be?
austen|Miss Bates and Miss Fairfax, escorted by the two gentlemen, walked into the room; and Mrs Elton seemed to think it as much her duty as Mrs Westons to receive them.
dickens|Rendered in a manner desperate, by her state and by the beckoning of their conductor, he drew over his neck the arm that shook upon his shoulder, lifted her a little, and hurried her into the room.
dickens|Why should a man scrape himself to that extent, before he could consider himself full dressed?
dickens|If I should prowl about the streets a long time, dont be uneasy; I shall reappear in the morning.
austen|Leave it all to me.
austen|Six years hence!
austen|Thank you, but I would rather you did not mention the subject to her; till the time draws nearer, I do not wish to be giving any body trouble.
austen|To Mrs Weston.
dickens|Oh!
dickens|There was something in the action, and in the light pressure of Biddys weddingring, that had a very pretty eloquence in it.
austen|The considerable slope, at nearly the foot of which the Abbey stood, gradually acquired a steeper form beyond its grounds; and at half a mile distant was a bank of considerable abruptness and grandeur, well clothed with wood;and at the bottom of this bank, favourably placed and sheltered, rose the Abbey Mill Farm, with meadows in front, and the river making a close and handsome curve around it.
dickens|My father is Miss Havishams cousin; not that that implies familiar intercourse between them, for he is a bad courtier and will not propitiate her.
dickens|one of us would say in a low voice.
dickens|I believed the iron to be my convicts iron,the iron I had seen and heard him filing at, on the marshes,but my mind did not accuse him of having put it to its latest use.
austen|You will find, whenever the subject becomes freed from its present restraints, that it did not take her wholly by surprize.
dickens|Long ago.
dickens|Barsad, said Defarge, making it French by pronunciation.
dickens|It was the turn of the mender of roads to say it this time, after observing these operations.
austen|The two last dances before supper were begun, and Harriet had no partner;the only young lady sitting down;and so equal had been hitherto the number of dancers, that how there could be any one disengaged was the wonder!
dickens|The letter was lying before me just completed, when I was told that a lady waited, who wished to see me.
austen|What will you think of my vanity?
dickens|Old London Bridge was soon passed, and old Billingsgate Market with its oysterboats and Dutchmen, and the White Tower and Traitors Gate, and we were in among the tiers of shipping.
austen|There could be no conversation in the noise of Mrs Phillipss supper party, but his manners recommended him to everybody.
dickens|Oh dear you, sir?
dickens|Good gracious!
austen|Mr Wickham is the son of a very respectable man, who had for many years the management of all the Pemberley estates, and whose good conduct in the discharge of his trust naturally inclined my father to be of service to him; and on George Wickham, who was his godson, his kindness was therefore liberally bestowed.
austen|I must be in town next Saturday.
dickens|No, I cannot spare him!
dickens|He had now to attend while Mr Stryver fitted the prisoners case on the jury, like a compact suit of clothes; showing them how the patriot, Barsad, was a hired spy and traitor, an unblushing trafficker in blood, and one of the greatest scoundrels upon earth since accursed Judaswhich he certainly did look rather like.
austen|Before this time last year I assure you we had had a delightful exploring party from Maple Grove to Kings Weston.
dickens|I took the latter course and went up.
dickens|but it will be comfortable presently,it seems that the woman was a young woman, and a jealous woman, and a revengeful woman; revengeful, Handel, to the last degree.
austen|I could suppose she might in timebut can she already?
dickens|Do you know where Mr Matthew Pocket lives?
austen|sir, I do indeed.
dickens|They did not undertake to say when it had left the prisonships to which it undoubtedly had once belonged; but they claimed to know for certain that that particular manacle had not been worn by either of the two convicts who had escaped last night.
dickens|In effect, madame struck in, looking up from her work and her little song, we never hear about them.
dickens|I dont know why it should be a crack thing to be a brewer; but it is indisputable that while you cannot possibly be genteel and bake, you may be as genteel as never was and brew.
austen|He had used every body illand they are all delighted to forgive him.
austen|It did assist; for though he began with grave looks and short questions, he was soon led on to talk of them all in the usual way, and to take the child out of her arms with all the unceremoniousness of perfect amity.
dickens|I say we went over, but I was pushed over by Pumblechook, exactly as if I had that moment picked a pocket or fired a rick; indeed, it was the general impression in Court that I had been taken redhanded; for, as Pumblechook shoved me before him through the crowd, I heard some people say, Whats he done?
austen|I am making a conundrum.
dickens|Neither were my notions of the theological positions to which my Catechism bound me, at all accurate; for, I have a lively remembrance that I supposed my declaration that I was to walk in the same all the days of my life,  laid me under an obligation always to go through the village from our house in one particular direction, and never to vary it by turning down by the wheelwrights or up by the mill.
dickens|And Miss Estellathats her niece, I thinkhanded her in cake and wine at the coachwindow, on a gold plate.
dickens|You are quite aware of that?
austen|This Emma felt was aimed at her; and it made her quite angry.
dickens|Any person mentioned?
dickens|Mr Lorry adjusted his little wig at both ears as a means towards that end, and bit the feather of a pen.
austen|I dare say you believed it; but I am by no means convinced that you would be gone with such celerity.
austen|I suppose I smile for pleasure at Colonel Campbells being so rich and so liberal.
dickens|His life is forfeit to the people.
austen|Could he expect that her friends would not step forward?
austen|The only pain was in leaving her father, who would certainly miss her, and who, when it came to the point, so little liked her going, that he told her to write to him, and almost promised to answer her letter.
dickens|said the turnkey.
austen|Emma knew it to have been very much the case.
austen|Great has been the pleasure, I am sure.
dickens|Charles Darnayas was naturalasked him, in all goodhumour and goodfellowship, what he did mean?
dickens|That, said Joe, summing up with his judicial air, were the word of Biddy.
dickens|And here you see me!
austen|So much the better.
austen|Emma felt that she could not do too much for her, that Harriet had a right to all her ingenuity and all her patience; but it was heavy work to be for ever convincing without producing any effect, for ever agreed to, without being able to make their opinions the same.
austen|This will not be your only visit to Randalls.
austen|They were entering the hall.
austen|Elizabeth could hardly help laughing at so convenient a proposal; yet was really vexed that her mother should be always giving him such an epithet.
dickens|I do not think, said Doctor Manette with the firmness of selfconviction, that anything but the one train of association would renew it.
dickens|One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve.
dickens|cried The Vengeance; and embraced her.
dickens|Good day, gentlemen!
austen|An old married manquite good for nothing.
austen|From Elizabeths thoughts it was never absent.
austen|She does not depend upon his coming so much as I do but she does not know the parties so well as I do.
dickens|O Estella, Estella!
dickens|What a liar you were!
dickens|I think, he whispered to Miss Pross, after anxious consideration, I think we had best not speak to him just now, or at all disturb him.
dickens|Miserably I went to bed after all, and miserably thought of Estella, and miserably dreamed that my expectations were all cancelled, and that I had to give my hand in marriage to Herberts Clara, or play Hamlet to Miss Havishams Ghost, before twenty thousand people, without knowing twenty words of it.
dickens|But, imperceptibly, though I held by them fast, Joes hold upon them began to slacken; and whereas I wondered at this, at first, I soon began to understand that the cause of it was in me, and that the fault of it was all mine.
austen|dear, Kingstonare you?
austen|No; it was impossible.
austen|Dear me!
dickens|That was hid with you.
dickens|I noticed throughout, that he kept everything under his own hand, and distributed everything himself.
austen|I cannot boast of knowing more than halfadozen, in the whole range of my acquaintance, that are really accomplished.
dickens|O, his manners!
austen|How Wickham and Lydia were to be supported in tolerable independence, she could not imagine.
austen|Yes, simpleton as I was!
dickens|Good day.
dickens|Since that time, which is far enough away now, I have often thought that few people know what secrecy there is in the young under terror.
dickens|I have observed his daughter, repeated madame; yes, I have observed his daughter, more times than one.
austen|Charlotte herself was tolerably composed.
austen|You have not deserved this.
dickens|It was dense enough to shut out everything from the light of the coachlamps but these its own workings, and a few yards of road; and the reek of the labouring horses steamed into it, as if they had made it all.
austen|But, however, he did not.
dickens|These measures, advisable to be taken in any case, Mr Lorry took in the hope of his coming to himself.
austen|was not a man to be trusted.
dickens|It was this, I conceive, which led to the Shades being advised by the gallery to turn over!
dickens|Do I ask you, my dear Darnay, to pass the door?
austen|Emma!
austen|I have not forgotten that you once tried to give me a caution.
austen|The rest had been the work of the moment, the immediate effect of what he heard, on his feelings.
austen|Mary was obliged to mix more with the world, but she could still moralize over every morning visit; and as she was no longer mortified by comparisons between her sisters beauty and her own, it was suspected by her father that she submitted to the change without much reluctance.
dickens|When he had sat in his saddle some halfhour, taking note of these things, Darnay found himself confronted by the same man in authority, who directed the guard to open the barrier.
austen|Through letters, whatever of good or bad was to be told would be communicated, and every succeeding day was expected to bring some news of importance.
austen|This was spoken jestingly; but it appeared to her so just a picture of Mr Darcy, that she would not trust herself with an answer, and therefore, abruptly changing the conversation talked on indifferent matters until they reached the Parsonage.
dickens|Ask him, is that so.
austen|If it failed to produce equal exertion, it could not be an equal conviction.
austen|A great many changes have happened in the neighbourhood, since you went away.
austen|I have neglected her too long.
austen|But tell me, what did you come down to Netherfield for?
austen|They must encounter each other, and make the best of it.
dickens|It was not that I knew I could never bear to speak to him about her, that I knew I could never bear to hear him creak his boots at her, that I knew I could never bear to see him wash his hands of her; it was, that my admiration should be within a foot or two of him,it was, that my feelings should be in the same place with him,that, was the agonizing circumstance.
dickens|This is not a good city, at this time, for you to be out in, unprotected; and as your escort knows Mr Barsad, I will invite him to Mr Lorrys with us.
dickens|Then hold your meddlesome tongue, said Solomon, and come out, if you want to speak to me.
dickens|said Miss Havisham.
dickens|So, up a dark brown staircase into a series of three dark brown rooms on the first floor.
austen|They were excessively sorry to go!
dickens|Worth no more than that, repeated Mr Cruncher.
dickens|With a deprecatory grunt, the jackal again complied.
austen|A gamester!
austen|But so we all do.
austen|She entered the room with an air more than usually ungracious, made no other reply to Elizabeths salutation than a slight inclination of the head, and sat down without saying a word.
austen|It seems an hopeless business.
dickens|He is very simple; is he not a little dangerous?
austen|Oh!
dickens|I was lost in the mazes of my future fortunes, and could not retrace the bypaths we had trodden together.
dickens|Genuine truth, Mr Darnay, trust me!
dickens|Orlick, with his hands in his pockets, slouched heavily at my side.
austen|How many a man has committed himself on a short acquaintance, and rued it all the rest of his life!
austen|Not that I presume to insinuate, however, that some people may not think you perfection already.
austen|I have been making the tour of the park, he replied, as I generally do every year, and intend to close it with a call at the Parsonage.
austen|Better not move at all, better stay in London altogether than travel forty miles to get into a worse air.
austen|But I would not wish you to take the trouble of making any inquiries at present.
dickens|I smite this bosom with these two hands as I smite it now, and I tell him, Defarge, I was brought up among the fishermen of the seashore, and that peasant family so injured by the two Evremonde brothers, as that Bastille paper describes, is my family.
austen|Mrs Bennet, accompanied by her two youngest girls, reached Netherfield soon after the family breakfast.
dickens|Not if I can help it.
austen|no.
austen|Perhaps I am the readier to suspect, because, to tell you the truth, I think it might have been some amusement to myself in the same situation.
austen|It inspired little more than an animating curiosity.
austen|But though I was always doing wrong things, they were very bad wrong things, and such as did me no service.
dickens|Her countenance immediately assumed a knitted and intent expression as if she had been reading for a week, but before she could have read half a dozen lines, she fixed her eyes upon me, and said, I hope your mamma is quite well?
dickens|I can buy pen, ink, and paper?
dickens|To whom I imparted how my uncle had come in the night and was then asleep, and how the breakfast preparations were to be modified accordingly.
austen|Miss Bennet eagerly disclaimed all extraordinary merit, and threw back the praise on her sisters warm affection.
dickens|Compeyson says to me, Separate defences, no communication, and that was all.
dickens|Is it worth being tried for ones life, to be the object of such sympathy and compassion, Mr Darnay?
austen|I feel that I should certainly have been impertinent.
dickens|I would not consent to your being charged with any written answer, but perhaps you will take a verbal one?
dickens|By the help of Heaven you shall!
dickens|She gradually withdrew her eyes from me, and turned them on the fire.
austen|Her voice was not unsteady; but her mind was in all the perturbation that such a development of self, such a burst of threatening evil, such a confusion of sudden and perplexing emotions, must create.
dickens|He had got somebody to scrawl it up for him, however, who had squeezed Death in with most inappropriate difficulty.
austen|On his quitting the room she sat down, unable to support herself, and looking so miserably ill, that it was impossible for Darcy to leave her, or to refrain from saying, in a tone of gentleness and commiseration, Let me call your maid.
austen|Very well.
austen|She disapproved them, which ought to have been enough.
austen|You will hardly blame me for refusing to comply with this entreaty, or for resisting every repetition to it.
austen|who could have done less for her?
austen|I shall offer to pay him tomorrow; he will rant and storm about his love for you, and there will be an end of the matter.
austen|Upon my word we shall be absolutely dissipated.
dickens|most unhappily, I am!
austen|But I know they will, because it is a family that a certain lady, of some consequence, at Enscombe, has a particular dislike to and though it is thought necessary to invite them once in two or three years, they always are put off when it comes to the point.
austen|It might be a very indifferent piece of wit, but Emma found a great deal to laugh at and enjoy in itand so did Frank and Harriet.
austen|He came to their father upon some business, and he asked him to stay to dinner.
dickens|They were armed.
dickens|He also explained that the utmost known of Mr Campbell there was, that he Herbert had Mr Campbell consigned to him, and felt a strong personal interest in his being well cared for, and living a secluded life.
dickens|At last, it began to get about, among such as were interested in the matter, that although Sydney Carton would never be a lion, he was an amazingly good jackal, and that he rendered suit and service to Stryver in that humble capacity.
dickens|No it were not.
dickens|I rejoice to see you.
dickens|They were overclouded again, they were fainter, they were gone; but they had been there.
dickens|So heres to Mrs Bentley Drummle, said Mr Jaggers, taking a decanter of choicer wine from his dumbwaiter, and filling for each of us and for himself, and may the question of supremacy be settled to the ladys satisfaction!
austen|I am sorry for it.
austen|I am not indebted for my present happiness to your eager desire of expressing your gratitude.
dickens|If you knew what a conflict goes on in the business mind, when the business mind is divided between goodnatured impulse and business appearances, you would be amused, Mr Darnay.
austen|I could not bear to have her ten miles from me; and as for Pulvis Lodge, the attics are dreadful.
dickens|He is going to pay the forfeit it will be paid in five minutes more.
dickens|Estella, said I, do look at that fellow in the corner yonder, who is looking over here at us.
austen|She could not endure to give him the true explanation; for though her suspicions were by no means removed, she was really ashamed of having ever imparted them.
dickens|Fifty pounds?
dickens|There were a few customers, drinking or not drinking, standing or seated, sprinkled about.
dickens|Whom I had looked for, I dont know.
austen|Very frequently were they reproached for this insensibility by Kitty and Lydia, whose own misery was extreme, and who could not comprehend such hardheartedness in any of the family.
dickens|Dont be alarmed, my dear Miss Pross.
dickens|I thought it best to hint, through the medium of a meditative look, that this might be occasioned by circumstances over which I had no control.
dickens|with an impatient movement of the fingers of her right hand; play, play, play!
dickens|I suppose he was about fiveandtwenty, but he usually spoke of himself as an ancient person.
austen|He was no dancer in general.
dickens|Those were drinking days, and most men drank hard.
dickens|Preserving her unmoved countenance, and with her fingers still going, Estella shook her head.
austen|She was sorry, but could not repent.
dickens|I am glad to see you, Joe.
dickens|Monseigneur!
dickens|Not a word was spoken, not a sound was made.
austen|And that is all that I can recollect of itbut it is very clever all the way through.
dickens|Mr Lorry leaned his arm upon the doorpost, and bowed his face upon it.
dickens|returned Miss Pross, shaking her head.
austen|Yet why did he come?
dickens|While Mrs Joe sat with her head bending over her needlework, I put my mouth into the forms of saying to Joe, Whats a convict?
austen|Do you know how Miss Bates and her niece came here?
austen|The time was coming when the news must spread farther, and other persons reception of it tried.
dickens|Now, Pip, said Mr Jaggers, put this case.
austen|Within abundance of silver paper was a pretty little Tunbridgeware box, which Harriet opened it was well lined with the softest cotton; but, excepting the cotton, Emma saw only a small piece of courtplaister.
dickens|For, I really am not, he added, with his sons smile, an alarming personage.
austen|Harriet Smith marries Robert Martin.
dickens|He is in Court at present.
austen|They contained no actual complaint, nor was there any revival of past occurrences, or any communication of present suffering.
dickens|Patriots!
dickens|Again our charge was the least anxious of the party.
dickens|For this reason, I suppose, they were now inflexible with one another; Mr Jaggers being highly dictatorial, and Wemmick obstinately justifying himself whenever there was the smallest point in abeyance for a moment.
austen|She wrote cheerfully, seemed surrounded with comforts, and mentioned nothing which she could not praise.
austen|When they repaired to the diningroom, Elizabeth eagerly watched to see whether Bingley would take the place, which, in all their former parties, had belonged to him, by her sister.
austen|And away he ran.
dickens|If his object in singling out Drummle were to bring him out still more, it perfectly succeeded.
dickens|I ask for information, as a plodding man of business who only deals with such material objects as guineas, shillings, and banknotesmay not the retention of the thing involve the retention of the idea?
austen|Was it merely to ride to Longbourn and be embarrassed?
dickens|I had got on so fast of late, that I had even started a boy in boots,top boots,in bondage and slavery to whom I might have been said to pass my days.
austen|The aunt was as tiresome as ever; more tiresome, because anxiety for her health was now added to admiration of her powers; and they had to listen to the description of exactly how little bread and butter she ate for breakfast, and how small a slice of mutton for dinner, as well as to see exhibitions of new caps and new workbags for her mother and herself; and Janes offences rose again.
dickens|Still, I love you.
dickens|As we returned towards the setting sun we had yesterday left behind us, and as the stream of our hopes seemed all running back, I told him how grieved I was to think that he had come home for my sake.
austen|She was, in fact, beginning very much to wonder that she had ever thought him pleasing at all; and his sight was so inseparably connected with some very disagreeable feelings, that, except in a moral light, as a penance, a lesson, a source of profitable humiliation to her own mind, she would have been thankful to be assured of never seeing him again.
austen|They will ruin your happiness.
dickens|and left her.
austen|I hope not infectious.
dickens|You dont deserve help, but Ill help you.
austen|It was a childs play, chosen to conceal a deeper game on Frank Churchills part.
dickens|You was a saying, he observed, when we had confronted one another in silence, that surely I must understand.
dickens|But she never was polite unless there was company.
austen|Not that I think Mr Martin would ever marry any body but what had had some educationand been very well brought up.
dickens|Is it Havisham?
austen|I never heard anything so abominable.
dickens|He must be stopped somehow.
dickens|I knew that when I was changed into a part of the vapor that had crept towards me but a little while before, like my own warning ghost, he would do as he had done in my sisters case,make all haste to the town, and be seen slouching about there drinking at the alehouses.
austen|She will never submit to any thing requiring industry and patience, and a subjection of the fancy to the understanding.
austen|In this danger Kitty also is comprehended.
austen|She had given them neither men, nor names, nor places, that could raise a blush.
austen|After sitting for a moment in silence, she said very stiffly to Elizabeth,  I hope you are well, Miss Bennet.
dickens|Say good night!
austen|When the ladies were separating for the toilette, he said to Elizabeth  Do not make yourself uneasy, my dear cousin, about your apparel.
austen|As she thought less of his inebriety, she thought more of his inconstancy and presumption; and with fewer struggles for politeness, replied,  It is impossible for me to doubt any longer.
dickens|It made me think of the young man.
austen|Little things do not irritate him.
dickens|said she to Joe, giving holidays to great idle hulkers like that.
austen|They had all been very illused since she last saw her sister.
austen|Mr Denny and Mr Wickham walked with the young ladies to the door of Mr Phillips house, and then made their bows, in spite of Miss Lydias pressing entreaties that they should come in, and even in spite of Mrs Phillipss throwing up the parlour window and loudly seconding the invitation.
austen|Elizabeth laughed heartily at this picture of herself, and said to Colonel Fitzwilliam, Your cousin will give you a very pretty notion of me, and teach you not to believe a word I say.
dickens|It was easy for me to find out, and I did soon find out, that Drummle had begun to follow her closely, and that she allowed him to do it.
dickens|Nothing but supper now, said the mender of roads, with a hungry face.
dickens|When I next attended to them, they were standing a little off from the bed, looking at me.
austen|They ought to have balls there at least every fortnight through the winter.
austen|I like him very much.
austen|They were both so truly respectable in their happiness, so disinterested in every sensation; thought so much of Jane; so much of every body, and so little of themselves, that every kindly feeling was at work for them.
dickens|said he.
dickens|I demand to see her.
austen|She merely said, in the course of some trivial chat, Well, Harriet, whenever you marry I would advise you to do so and soand thought no more of it, till after a minutes silence she heard Harriet say in a very serious tone, I shall never marry.
austen|Such an end of the doleful disappointment of five weeks back!
austen|Well, mamma, said she, when they were all returned to the breakfast room, and what do you think of my husband?
dickens|God help him, who should be with him!
dickens|When did I?
dickens|Here, he dodged backwards and forwards, and did all sorts of things while I looked helplessly at him.
dickens|And never will, Pip, he retorted, with a frowning smile.
austen|How could he be so taken in?
austen|Oh!
dickens|It is of no use, said Biddy, laying her hand upon my arm, as I was for running out, you know I would not deceive you; he was not there a minute, and he is gone.
austen|What a delightful library you have at Pemberley, Mr Darcy!
dickens|I understand you perfectly.
dickens|Im much of your opinion, boy, said he.
dickens|I thanked him for his valuable advice, and asked him what Herbert had done?
dickens|Give me your authority, like a dear good man.
austen|As soon as ever Mr Bingley comes, my dear, said Mrs Bennet, you will wait on him of course.
austen|After amusing himself some time with their curiosity, he thus explained  About a month ago I received this letter; and about a fortnight ago I answered it, for I thought it a case of some delicacy, and requiring early attention.
dickens|No, said Joe, its a kind of family name what he gave himself when a infant, and is called by.
austen|I know of nobody that is coming, I am sure, unless Charlotte Lucas should happen to call inand I hope my dinners are good enough for her.
dickens|Miss Manette!
austen|Elizabeth had scarcely time to disclaim all right to the compliment, before their approach was announced by the doorbell, and shortly afterwards the three gentlemen entered the room.
dickens|Miss Pross, on the instinct of the moment, seized her round the waist in both her arms, and held her tight.
dickens|In his workingclothes, Joe was a wellknit characteristiclooking blacksmith; in his holiday clothes, he was more like a scarecrow in good circumstances, than anything else.
dickens|Well?
austen|It was a good scheme; but on driving to the door they heard that neither master nor mistress was at home; they had both been out some time; the man believed they were gone to Hartfield.
dickens|The prisoner was so good as to beg permission to advise me how I could shelter my father from the wind and weather, better than I had done.
dickens|That, rather late in the evening Mr Wopsle gave us Collinss ode, and threw his bloodstained sword in thunder down, with such effect, that a waiter came in and said, The Commercials underneath sent up their compliments, and it wasnt the Tumblers Arms.
dickens|I keep a very nice house.
austen|She was not sorry.
dickens|By dint of straining that term out of myself several times and tapping the old gentleman on the chest to associate it with him, I at last succeeded in making my meaning understood.
dickens|And you have seen her still more recently.
dickens|We are so harmonious, and you have been a blacksmith,would you mind it?
austen|And his behaviour, so strikingly alteredwhat could it mean?
dickens|Shortly, this wornout murderer descried in the imperfect light one of the carriages of Monseigneur, and, staggering to that gorgeous vehicle, climbed in at the door, and shut himself up to take his rest on its dainty cushions.
dickens|Charles Darnay roused himself, and gave the required information, in words as suitable as he could find.
austen|Stay, stay, I will go myself.
dickens|all otherth ith CagMaggerth, give me Jaggerth!
dickens|I do not even know, said I, speaking low as he took his seat at the table, by what name to call you.
dickens|What is any visit made for?
dickens|If the thing were gone, my dear Manette, might not the fear go with it?
austen|It was not without an effort, meanwhile, that she could wait even for Longbourn, before she told her sister of Mr Darcys proposals.
dickens|I am not unwilling to die, if the Republic which is to do so much good to us poor, will profit by my death; but I do not know how that can be, Citizen Evremonde.
dickens|Joe Gargery, maam.
austen|He gave me a quiet hint; I told him he was mistaken; he asked my pardon and said no more.
dickens|Rising softly, for my charge lay fast asleep, I looked out of the window.
dickens|I found the same gate open, and I explored the garden, and even looked in at the windows of the detached house; but my view was suddenly stopped by the closed shutters within, and all was lifeless.
dickens|I am glad to believe you have repented and recovered yourself.
austen|Be satisfied with doctoring and coddling yourself and the children, and let me look as I chuse.
austen|He is a disgrace to the name of man.
dickens|Why, Wemmick.
austen|Lydia laughed, and said  Aye, that is just like your formality and discretion.
austen|That he might not be irritated into an absolute fever, by the fire which Mr Woodhouses tender habits required almost every evening throughout the year, he soon afterwards took a hasty leave, and walked home to the coolness and solitude of Donwell Abbey.
dickens|Does what has passed between us give me any excuse for asking you a question relative to Estella?
austen|No sooner was she out of sight, than Emma exclaimed,  What an exquisite possession a good picture of her would be!
austen|What had she to wish for?
austen|Pardon me for neglecting to profit by your advice, which on every other subject shall be my constant guide, though in the case before us I consider myself more fitted by education and habitual study to decide on what is right than a young lady like yourself.
dickens|Mr AttorneyGeneral sat down, and the father and daughter sat down together.
dickens|You acted noble, my boy, said he.
dickens|Though days and nights circled as regularly as when time was young, and the evening and morning were the first day, other count of time there was none.
austen|Call upon her, by all means.
dickens|This is devilish good of you.
austen|No, I am perfectly sure that he is not trifling or silly.
austen|I admire the activity of your benevolence, observed Mary, but every impulse of feeling should be guided by reason; and, in my opinion, exertion should always be in proportion to what is required.
dickens|A boy, said Estella.
dickens|Well!
austen|There is great fear, great caution, great resolution somewhere.
dickens|Yo there!
austen|Dearest Lizzy, I hardly know what I would write, but I have bad news for you, and it cannot be delayed.
austen|I cannot fix on the hour, or the spot, or the look, or the words, which laid the foundation.
austen|About a month, said Elizabeth; and then, unwilling to let the subject drop, added, He is a man of very large property in Derbyshire, I understand.
austen|and an hundred other circumstances;how clearly they had seemed to point at Harriet.
dickens|You are happy, my dear father?
dickens|Good evening.
dickens|returned Sydney, with a lighter and more goodhumoured laugh, dont you be moral!
austen|To Miss            CHARADE.
austen|On the following morning he hastened to Rosings to pay his respects.
dickens|Of the manner and extent to which he took our trumps into custody, and came out with mean little cards at the ends of hands, before which the glory of our Kings and Queens was utterly abased, I say nothing; nor, of the feeling that I had, respecting his looking upon us personally in the light of three very obvious and poor riddles that he had found out long ago.
austen|Their conduct has been such, replied Elizabeth, as neither you, nor I, nor anybody can ever forget.
dickens|I go, said madame, with you at present.
austen|He was not a great favourite with his fair sisterinlaw.
austen|Colonel Forster came yesterday, having left Brighton the day before, not many hours after the express.
dickens|When I had no more ticks to make, I folded all my bills up uniformly, docketed each on the back, and tied the whole into a symmetrical bundle.
austen|But why should you wish to persuade me that I feel more than I acknowledge?
dickens|said the man.
dickens|At this dismal time we were evidently all possessed by the idea that we were followed.
austen|The picturegallery, and two or three of the principal bedrooms, were all that remained to be shown.
austen|To understand, thoroughly understand her own heart, was the first endeavour.
dickens|I told him.
austen|She had received a very recent proof of its impartiality.
dickens|I thanked him and ran home again, and there I found that Joe had already locked the front door and vacated the state parlor, and was seated by the kitchen fire with a hand on each knee, gazing intently at the burning coals.
dickens|What did you play at, boy?
dickens|asked the gentleman, stopping and looking at me.
austen|I have seen nothing like it sinceWell, where shall we sit?
austen|The respect created by the conviction of his valuable qualities, though at first unwillingly admitted, had for some time ceased to be repugnant to her feeling; and it was now heightened into somewhat of a friendlier nature, by the testimony so highly in his favour, and bringing forward his disposition in so amiable a light, which yesterday had produced.
dickens|and good wine.
austen|As for Jane Fairfax, she might at least relieve her feelings from any present solicitude on her account.
austen|He simpers, and smirks, and makes love to us all.
dickens|Of what profession?
dickens|Youll do yourself a mischief.
dickens|How dare you tell me so?
austen|The superior degree of confidence towards Harriet, which this one article marked, gave her severe pain.
dickens|Mr Lorry was already calling at the door when he got there.
dickens|I dont say no to that, but I meant Estella.
dickens|The garret, built to be a depository for firewood and the like, was dim and dark for, the window of dormer shape, was in truth a door in the roof, with a little crane over it for the hoisting up of stores from the street unglazed, and closing up the middle in two pieces, like any other door of French construction.
austen|At length, however, the remarks of her companions on her absence of mind aroused her, and she felt the necessity of appearing more like herself.
austen|One ought not to repine;but, to be sure, it would have been such a thing for me!
dickens|The Spider, as Mr Jaggers had called him, was used to lying in wait, however, and had the patience of his tribe.
austen|I do, I do like him, she replied, with tears in her eyes, I love him.
austen|for I had reason to believe her very lately more determined against him, much more, than she was before.
dickens|Thats a question I must not be asked.
dickens|It was the only good thing I had done, and the only completed thing I had done, since I was first apprised of my great expectations.
austen|So seldom that a letter, among the thousands that are constantly passing about the kingdom, is even carried wrongand not one in a million, I suppose, actually lost!
dickens|Argued with the jury on substantial worldly groundsthe only grounds ever worth taking into accountit was a plain case, and had not a weak spot in it.
dickens|I urged, in despair.
dickens|We spoke very little.
austen|It had just occurred to Mrs Weston that Mrs Elton must be asked to begin the ball; that she would expect it; which interfered with all their wishes of giving Emma that distinction.
dickens|As he said so, he got up from table, and putting his hand into the breast of the peacoat he wore, brought out a short black pipe, and a handful of loose tobacco of the kind that is called Negrohead.
austen|It was done however.
austen|But the spiritless condition which this event threw her into was shortly relieved, and her mind opened again to the agitation of hope, by an article of news which then began to be in circulation.
dickens|Theoretically, she was already as good a blacksmith as I, or better.
austen|He had all the clearness and quickness of mind which she wanted, and he could sometimes act an ungracious, or say a severe thing.
austen|Elizabeth made no answer; and without attempting to persuade her ladyship to return into the house, walked quietly into it herself.
austen|It was to be a wholelength in watercolours, like Mr John Knightleys, and was destined, if she could please herself, to hold a very honourable station over the mantelpiece.
dickens|It had been placed there since my last visit, and I entered, that same day, on a regular occupation of pushing Miss Havisham in this chair when she was tired of walking with her hand upon my shoulder round her own room, and across the landing, and round the other room.
austen|I should say so, but that I suppose there may be a hundred different ways of being in love.
austen|Could she be secure of that, indeed, of his never marrying at all, she believed she should be perfectly satisfied.
austen|Might he not?
dickens|I was modestly wondering whether my utmost ingenuity would have enabled me to say anything that would have amused him half as much as this imaginary pleasantry, when I was startled by a sudden click in the wall on one side of the chimney, and the ghostly tumbling open of a little wooden flap with JOHN upon it.
austen|It would be very hard, indeed, my dear, if poor Isabella were to be anywhere but at Hartfield.
dickens|Similarly she mightnt.
dickens|Dont you move, Ladybird!
austen|His regiment is there; for I suppose you have heard of his leaving the shire, and of his being gone into the regulars.
dickens|That, if statues were decreed in Britain, as in ancient Greece and Rome, to public benefactors, this shining citizen would assuredly have had one.
dickens|But you are not going now, Joe?
austen|In this quiet way, the first fortnight of her visit soon passed away.
dickens|His yellow rags of shirt lay open at the throat, and showed his body to be withered and worn.
dickens|No.
dickens|I said in a tone of conviction, Ahh!
dickens|Give me my work.
austen|said Emma again.
austen|I shall often have a niece with me.
dickens|In short, is it not a concession to the misgiving, to keep the forge?
dickens|Confound it!
austen|I should like to see two more here,your pretty little friend, Miss Smith, and my sonand then I should say we were quite complete.
austen|In her letters I shall be at dear Highbury again.
dickens|She tied a knot with flashing eyes, as if it throttled a foe.
austen|My dear Mr E.
austen|Mr Elton must now be left to himself.
dickens|I dont want to get into trouble.
dickens|Second them poor things well out o this, and never no more will I interfere with Mrs Crunchers flopping, never no more!
dickens|To my thinking, there was something in him that made it hopeless to attempt to disguise him.
dickens|She was not beautiful,she was common, and could not be like Estella,but she was pleasant and wholesome and sweettempered.
dickens|It has been supposed that the man to whom she gave her misplaced confidence acted throughout in concert with her halfbrother; that it was a conspiracy between them; and that they shared the profits.
austen|We know, on the contrary, that he has so much of both, that he is glad to get rid of them at the idlest haunts in the kingdom.
dickens|I have thought it over again and again, said Herbert, and I think I know a better course than taking a Thames waterman.
dickens|Finding such clerk on Wemmicks post that morning, I knew what was going on; but I was not sorry to have Mr Jaggers and Wemmick together, as Wemmick would then hear for himself that I said nothing to compromise him.
dickens|Of his own necessity.
dickens|Go aside!
austen|Her mother would talk of her views in the same intelligible tone.
dickens|Put me aside for ever,you have done so, I well know,but bestow yourself on some worthier person than Drummle.
austen|It is tenderness of heart which makes my dear father so generally belovedwhich gives Isabella all her popularity.
dickens|Nobody had come out at the gate with us, nobody went in at the gate with me.
dickens|For when I yielded to the temptation presented by the casks, and began to walk on them, I saw her walking on them at the end of the yard of casks.
dickens|said Defarge.
dickens|At once I put bills up in the windows; for, I was in debt, and had scarcely any money, and began to be seriously alarmed by the state of my affairs.
austen|And you have forgotten one matter of joy to me, said Emma, and a very considerable onethat I made the match myself.
austen|Let us forgive each other at once.
dickens|I saw the shadows of the heavy stairrails, thrown by the watchmans lantern on the wall.
dickens|In the infinite meaning of his reply and his boundless confidence in his views, the Jack took one of his bloated shoes off, looked into it, knocked a few stones out of it on the kitchen floor, and put it on again.
dickens|Are you ready to play?
austen|But I would really advise you to make your purchase in that neighbourhood, and take Pemberley for a kind of model.
austen|No motive can excuse the unjust and ungenerous part you acted there.
dickens|Rather a stately house of its kind, but dolefully in want of painting, and with dirty windows.
dickens|Child of Evremonde!
austen|This is an attachment which a woman may well feel pride in creating.
austen|is not there a little mistake?
dickens|I did.
dickens|And it was now, about little Lucies sixth birthday, that they began to have an awful sound, as of a great storm in France with a dreadful sea rising.
dickens|She cared nothing for you.
austen|But if you have got them today, said Elizabeth, my mothers purpose will be answered.
austen|He would scarcely be ten pounds a year the loser by the hundred that was to be paid them; for, what with her board and pocket allowance, and the continual presents in money which passed to her through her mothers hands, Lydias expenses had been very little within that sum.
austen|That was your doing, papa.
austen|There might be scruples of delicacy, my dear Emma.
dickens|That is your consolation.
austen|Yes, very handsome.
dickens|Standing at the bottom of the staircase, I felt the mildewed air of the feastchamber, without seeing her open the door, and I heard her walking there, and so across into her own room, and so across again into that, never ceasing the low cry.
austen|Every invitation was successful.
dickens|Your friend Mr Matthew, I believe, is superior to the rest of his family?
dickens|Miss Manette, it was I.
dickens|What, indeed, with his hand putting aside the golden hair from the cheek, and his other hand against the heart that beat for him!
austen|I must confess myself surprised by your application; I did not expect it from you.
dickens|from my sister, I found Joe telling them about the convicts confession, and all the visitors suggesting different ways by which he had got into the pantry.
dickens|Steeping the towels in the water, and partially wringing them out, he folded them on his head in a manner hideous to behold, sat down at the table, and said, Now I am ready!
dickens|These were its brief contents  Not wishful to intrude I have departured fur you are well again dear Pip and will do better without JO.
dickens|Now, good bye!
dickens|As it stood open, and as I knew that Estella had let the visitors out,for she had returned with the keys in her hand,I strolled into the garden, and strolled all over it.
austen|I met the letters in my way this morning, and seeing my sons hand, presumed to open itthough it was not directed to meit was to Mrs Weston.
austen|But fetch them both.
austen|My dear Mr Bennet, you must not expect such girls to have the sense of their father and mother.
dickens|said one of these three to Monsieur Defarge.
dickens|We were at a loss to find a suitable attendant for her, until a circumstance happened conveniently to relieve us.
dickens|Dear me!
dickens|As I stood aside to let that carriage pass, apprehensive that it might otherwise run me down, a head was put out at the window, and a voice called to the driver to stop.
dickens|And there my sister became so excited by the twentyfive guineas, that nothing would serve her but we must have a dinner out of that windfall at the Blue Boar, and that Pumblechook must go over in his chaisecart, and bring the Hubbles and Mr Wopsle.
austen|What could he mean?
austen|High in the rank of her most serious and heartfelt felicities, was the reflection that all necessity of concealment from Mr Knightley would soon be over.
austen|Not your vain spirit, but your serious spirit.
austen|for presently she came forwardcame quite up to me, and asked me how I did, and seemed ready to shake hands, if I would.
dickens|Unencumbered with luggage, they would soon overtake the coach, and, passing it and preceding it on the road, would order its horses in advance, and greatly facilitate its progress during the precious hours of the night, when delay was the most to be dreaded.
austen|I pity you.
dickens|Defarge, that sister of the mortally wounded boy upon the ground was my sister, that husband was my sisters husband, that unborn child was their child, that brother was my brother, that father was my father, those dead are my dead, and that summons to answer for those things descends to me!
dickens|I have been detained bythe nephew stopped a moment in his answervarious business.
dickens|Quick to see what happened!
dickens|Well!
dickens|He remains up there in his iron cage some days.
dickens|he said, filling his new goblet.
austen|They could describe an entertainment with accuracy, relate an anecdote with humour, and laugh at their acquaintance with spirit.
dickens|Mr and Mrs Pocket had a toady neighbor; a widow lady of that highly sympathetic nature that she agreed with everybody, blessed everybody, and shed smiles and tears on everybody, according to circumstances.
austen|But do not imagine that I want to influence you.
dickens|What is his name?
dickens|And take a pipe with you!
austen|His disposition must be dreadful.
dickens|When I go into the office, I leave the Castle behind me, and when I come into the Castle, I leave the office behind me.
austen|I could not stay two minutes.
austen|I am quite easy on that head, replied Mrs Weston.
dickens|She calls you Solomon, and she must know, being your sister.
austen|You must not suspect me.
dickens|cried the audience.
dickens|I have known such energy as yours do great things before nowthough never, he added, with a smile and a sigh together, such great things as this.
austen|It was hardly right; but it had been so strong an idea, that it would escape her, and his submission to all that she told, was a compliment to her penetration, which made it difficult for her to be quite certain that she ought to have held her tongue.
austen|Two steps, Jane, take care of the two steps.
austen|By only raising my voice, and saying any thing two or three times over, she is sure to hear; but then she is used to my voice.
austen|I need not explain myself farther; and though we know this anxiety to be quite needless, yet if she feels it, it will easily account for her behaviour to me; and so deservedly dear as he is to his sister, whatever anxiety she must feel on his behalf is natural and amiable.
dickens|None.
dickens|Rising for a moment, a distinct speck of face in this way of light, the prisoner said, My Lord, I have received my sentence of Death from the Almighty, but I bow to yours, and sat down again.
dickens|I think I know the delights of freedom, I answered.
austen|As for their mother, Mr Collinss letter had done away much of her illwill, and she was preparing to see him with a degree of composure which astonished her husband and daughters.
austen|How unlucky!
dickens|I am working up towards a partnership, you know.
austen|Darcy professed a great curiosity to see the view from the Mount, and Elizabeth silently consented.
austen|I really was persuaded of Mrs Westons having mentioned it in one of her letters to Enscombe, many weeks ago, with all these particularsbut as she declares she never heard a syllable of it before, of course it must have been a dream.
dickens|So soon?
austen|I hope, added Mrs Gardiner, that no consideration with regard to this young man will influence her.
dickens|Miss Havisham, said Joe, with a fixed look at me, like an effort of remembrance, made it wery partickler that we should give herwere it compliments or respects, Pip?
dickens|The chateau was left to itself to flame and burn.
austen|Oh!
dickens|Same to you, Colonel.
austen|She then read the first sentence aloud, which comprised the information of their having just resolved to follow their brother to town directly, and of their meaning to dine in Grosvenor Street, where Mr Hurst had a house.
dickens|It was with a depressed heart that I walked in the starlight for an hour and more, about the courtyard, and about the brewery, and about the ruined garden.
dickens|I saw this, within the first minute of my contemplation of the patient; for, in her restless strivings she had turned over on her face on the edge of the bed, had drawn the end of the scarf into her mouth, and was in danger of suffocation.
austen|The two youngest of the family, Catherine and Lydia, were particularly frequent in these attentions; their minds were more vacant than their sisters, and when nothing better offered, a walk to Meryton was necessary to amuse their morning hours and furnish conversation for the evening; and however bare of news the country in general might be, they always contrived to learn some from their aunt.
dickens|Outside the blinds.
dickens|here are three lumps of breadandcheese towards your matrimonial picnic, Darnay!
austen|I am very happy.
austen|Letters are no matter of indifference; they are generally a very positive curse.
dickens|And the man came on.
dickens|Thats her father.
austen|They had not been long seated and composed when Mr Woodhouse, with a melancholy shake of the head and a sigh, called his daughters attention to the sad change at Hartfield since she had been there last.
dickens|As confidence was out of the question with The Avenger in the hall, which could merely be regarded in the light of an antechamber to the keyhole, I sent him to the Play.
dickens|He abandoned that attempt on the first day, and resolved merely to keep himself always before him, as a silent protest against the delusion into which he had fallen, or was falling.
dickens|The old gentleman, however, experienced so much difficulty in getting his gloves on, that Wemmick found it necessary to put him with his back against a pillar, and then to get behind the pillar himself and pull away at them, while I for my part held the old gentleman round the waist, that he might present an equal and safe resistance.
dickens|Show us where you live, said the man.
dickens|I can do it better by this light than by a stronger, for my hand is steadiest when I dont see the poor blistered patches too distinctly.
dickens|Thirtyseven.
dickens|Your mother, is it not, my little citizeness?
dickens|There appearing to be no other door on that floor, and the keeper of the wineshop going straight to this one when they were left alone, Mr Lorry asked him in a whisper, with a little anger  Do you make a show of Monsieur Manette?
dickens|Lucie, her child.
austen|cried Elizabeth.
austen|They were rather handsome, had been educated in one of the first private seminaries in town, had a fortune of twenty thousand pounds, were in the habit of spending more than they ought, and of associating with people of rank, and were therefore in every respect entitled to think well of themselves, and meanly of others.
austen|There was just such an informality in the terms of the bequest as to give me no hope from law.
austen|Dear me!
austen|As to connexion, there Emma was perfectly easy; persuaded, that after all his own vaunted claims and disdain of Harriet, he had done nothing.
dickens|I thanked him and said I would.
dickens|He sat down in a chair on the hearth, over against Mr Lorry.
dickens|A wild beast tamed, you called her.
austen|I think you understand me, therefore.
austen|He did not boast, but it naturally betrayed itself, that he had persuaded his aunt where his uncle could do nothing, and on her laughing and noticing it, he owned that he believed excepting one or two points he could with time persuade her to any thing.
dickens|I have never been absolutely certain whether I uttered a shrill yell of terror, merely in spirit, or in the bodily hearing of the company.
dickens|I rang for the tea, and the waiter, reappearing with his magic clew, brought in by degrees some fifty adjuncts to that refreshment, but of tea not a glimpse.
austen|Pray do not make any more matches.
dickens|Ah!
austen|It must be an amusing study.
austen|There was too much to be thought, and felt, and said, for attention to any other objects.
austen|Mrs Bennet could hardly comprehend it.
dickens|With a clink for the stout,Old Clem!
dickens|And ten?
austen|You are a humourist, and may say what you like.
dickens|I might have thought it was all lies together, only as the birds names come out true, I supposed mine did.
dickens|And its run through my fingers and gone, you see!
austen|His eldest daughters alarm was equal to his own.
dickens|It concerns myself, Herbert, said I, and one other person.
austen|yes, very.
dickens|They exchanged looks, but bent their heads to me as I bent mine to them, and we parted without another word on either side.
dickens|That the mother and father, unknown to one another, were dwelling within so many miles, furlongs, yards if you like, of one another.
dickens|We got ashore among some slippery stones while we ate and drank what we had with us, and looked about.
austen|Elizabeth read on  I have seen them both.
dickens|until he absolutely wept with sentiment.
dickens|She stood looking at her master, not understanding whether she was free to go, or whether he had more to say to her and would call her back if she did go.
austen|But James will not like to put the horses to for such a little way;and where are the poor horses to be while we are paying our visit?
dickens|I should have liked him to have betrayed emotion, or to have said, It does you credit, Pip, or something of that sort.
dickens|In my dreadful situation, it was a relief when he was brought back, and surveying the company all round as if they had disagreed with him, sank down into his chair with the one significant gasp, Tar!
dickens|It was almost dark when they arrived at the Bank.
dickens|Thus, had he come through the hours, to the day when the fiftytwo heads were to fall.
dickens|The horse was visible outside in the drizzle at the door, my breakfast was put on the table, Drummles was cleared away, the waiter invited me to begin, I nodded, we both stood our ground.
dickens|And so he is.
austen|She is a very headstrong, foolish girl, and does not know her own interest but I will make her know it.
dickens|O dear me!
austen|They may be there, though for the purpose of concealment, for no more exceptional purpose.
dickens|Her contempt for me was so strong, that it became infectious, and I caught it.
austen|I think Miss Fairfax dances very well; and Mrs Weston is the very best countrydance player, without exception, in England.
dickens|was the fierce retort.
dickens|Now, what I would humbly offer to you, sir, pursued Mr Cruncher, even if it wos so, which I dont say it is  Dont prevaricate, said Mr Lorry.
austen|No, I can pronounce his name without the smallest distress.
austen|yesI understand you perfectly.
austen|I did not think Mrs Gardiner was so little to be trusted.
austen|Yes, yes, they must marry.
austen|Do you imagine Colonel Campbell knows the business to be going forward just at this time?
dickens|Mr Cruncher was soothed, but shook his head in a dubious and moral way.
dickens|And you have, and are bound to have, that tenderness for the life he has risked on your account, that you must save him, if possible, from throwing it away.
dickens|Thats whats wanted.
austen|As for your Elizabeths picture, you must not have it taken, for what painter could do justice to those beautiful eyes?
dickens|It is enough, my husband, said Madame Defarge.
austen|Excuse my interferenceit was kindly meant.
dickens|Look angry at me, Joe.
dickens|I dont say anybody is.
dickens|Not you!
austen|I hoped I was perfectly equal to any sacrifice of that description.
austen|Emma laughed, and replied But I had the assistance of all your endeavours to counteract the indulgence of other people.
dickens|Not on any account, returned Herbert; but a publichouse may keep a gentleman.
austen|You thought the waiter must not hear, as if he cared!
dickens|But still I felt as if my eyes must start out of my head, and as if this must be a dream.
dickens|How does this happen?
dickens|Ten thousand times?
austen|Something of that nature would be particularly desirable for me, as an inducement to keep me in practice; for married women, you knowthere is a sad story against them, in general.
austen|I was right, therefore, my last letter had never reached her.
austen|She then repeated some warm personal praise which she had drawn from Mr Elton, and now did full justice to; and Harriet blushed and smiled, and said she had always thought Mr Elton very agreeable.
austen|She was immediately told that the two gentlemen from Rosings had each called during her absence; Mr Darcy, only for a few minutes, to take leavebut that Colonel Fitzwilliam had been sitting with them at least an hour, hoping for her return, and almost resolving to walk after her till she could be found.
dickens|Only tip him a nod every now and then when he looks off his paper,  said Wemmick, and hell be as happy as a king.
austen|I am astonished, my dear, said Mrs Bennet, that you should be so ready to think your own children silly.
austen|Such a man, to quit the tranquillity and independence of his own fireside, and on the evening of a cold sleety April day rush out again into the world!
dickens|When it was over, he said, weighing in his hand the purse he had ceased to swing  Now, Joseph Gargery, I warn you this is your last chance.
dickens|In the meantime, it is always preparing, though it is not seen or heard.
austen|And Mrs Churchill probably has not health or spirits like Selina to enjoy that sort of seclusion.
dickens|Joe and I gasped, and looked at one another.
austen|accompanied by a violent yawn.
austen|Tis too much!
dickens|Yes, she returned, again nodding steadily, I let you go on.
dickens|Nothing was needed but this; the wretched man, after loading wretched me with his gold and silver chains for years, had risked his life to come to me, and I held it there in my keeping!
dickens|Within a month, I had quitted England, and within two months I was clerk to Clarriker and Co.
austen|I am afraid, said he, composing his features, I am very much afraid, my dear Emma, that you will not smile when you hear it.
dickens|I ask your pardon, said the Doctor, in a subdued tone, after some moments.
dickens|asked Mrs Joe.
austen|I may not have convinced you perhaps, but I am perfectly convinced myself that Mr Dixon is a principal in the business.
dickens|Of her outward appearance I know no more than that she was like her mother.
austen|He must go somewhere, but he did not know where, and he knew he should have nothing to live on.
dickens|Theres no more to be got where that came from.
dickens|How do you know it?
austen|But no sooner had he made it clear to himself and his friends that she hardly had a good feature in her face, than he began to find it was rendered uncommonly intelligent by the beautiful expression of her dark eyes.
austen|If there had not been a Netherfield ball to prepare for and talk of, the younger Miss Bennets would have been in a very pitiable state at this time, for from the day of the invitation, to the day of the ball, there was such a succession of rain as prevented their walking to Meryton once.
austen|Waxcandles in the schoolroom!
austen|You will not be sorry to find yourself at home.
dickens|Now understand me, pursued Mr Lorry.
dickens|Speak!
dickens|There was an air of reservation in the answer which increased my perplexity, and the answer was, that her maid believed she was only coming back at all for a little while.
austen|Mr whatshisname.
austen|Oh!
dickens|This is wery liberal on your part, Pip, said Joe, and it is as such received and grateful welcome, though never looked for, far nor near, nor nowheres.
dickens|One cloudy moonlight night, in the third week of December I think the twentysecond of the month in the year 1757, I was walking on a retired part of the quay by the Seine for the refreshment of the frosty air, at an hours distance from my place of residence in the Street of the School of Medicine, when a carriage came along behind me, driven very fast.
dickens|Now, the sun was full up, and movement began in the village.
austen|You can borrow Mrs Coles.
austen|And I know he has read the Vicar of Wakefield.
austen|Dear me, how clever!
dickens|It was not at all expressed to me that he even comprehended my intention, for he gave me a look that I did not understand, and it all passed in a moment.
dickens|A spirit of contempt for the fawners and plotters.
austen|cried he.
austen|To the postoffice indeed!
dickens|The doorkeeper will pass the note to Mr Lorry, and do you make any gesture that will attract Mr Lorrys attention, and show him where you stand.
austen|But with a smile if Colonel Campbell should have employed a careless friend, and if it should prove to have an indifferent tonewhat shall I say?
austen|She had been extremely surprized, never more so, than when Emma first opened the affair to her; but she saw in it only increase of happiness to all, and had no scruple in urging him to the utmost.
dickens|There was a heap of old feathery woodashes on the hearth.
austen|Very well; I shall not attempt to deny Emmas being pretty.
austen|True, said Mr Bennet, but it is a comfort to think that whatever of that kind may befall you, you have an affectionate mother who will make the most of it.
austen|Insufferable woman!
dickens|Her dinners, of a very modest quality, were so well cooked and so well served, and so neat in their contrivances, half English and half French, that nothing could be better.
austen|If I know myself, Harriet, mine is an active, busy mind, with a great many independent resources; and I do not perceive why I should be more in want of employment at forty or fifty than oneandtwenty.
austen|Every body last night said how well you played.
dickens|He repeated what he had already said.
dickens|Ever live by cheating at play?
dickens|I expect youll have an invitation tomorrow.
dickens|But, all I had endured up to this time was nothing in comparison with the awful feelings that took possession of me when the pause was broken which ensued upon my sisters recital, and in which pause everybody had looked at me as I felt painfully conscious with indignation and abhorrence.
austen|Mrs Elton was spoken of.
austen|Oh!
austen|I shall not be able to keep youand so I warn you.
dickens|Can you follow me, Lucie?
dickens|She never changed the order of these three sentences, but she sometimes left out a word in one or other of them; never putting in another word, but always leaving a blank and going on to the next word.
austen|Wish it she must, for his sakebe the consequence nothing to herself, but his remaining single all his life.
dickens|I have observed her in the court, and I have observed her in the street by the prison.
austen|The letter, perhaps, began in bitterness, but it did not end so.
dickens|Both the women followed; the second woman being The Vengeance.
dickens|Defarge stopped short, and stared at him.
dickens|It was neither a very true nor a very polite thing to say, she remarked, directing her eyes to the ships again.
austen|There is such perfect goodtemper and goodwill in Mr Elton as one cannot but value.
dickens|said Mr Cruncher, surveying him.
austen|The appearance of the little sittingroom as they entered, was tranquillity itself; Mrs Bates, deprived of her usual employment, slumbering on one side of the fire, Frank Churchill, at a table near her, most deedily occupied about her spectacles, and Jane Fairfax, standing with her back to them, intent on her pianoforte.
austen|Mrs Bennet, all amazement, though flattered by having a guest of such high importance, received her with the utmost politeness.
dickens|When I returned to the bedside of the young woman, I found her raving in precisely the same order of continuity.
austen|You are too obliging, my dear Miss Woodhouse; but we really must take leave.
dickens|Which that were my own belief, answered Joe; her compliments to Mrs J.
austen|Hazle eyes excepted, two years more might make her all that he wished.
dickens|said Stryver, whistling.
dickens|The bread and meat were acceptable, and the beer was warming and tingling, and I was soon in spirits to look about me.
austen|There, indeed, lay real pleasure, for there she was giving up the sweetest hours of the twentyfour to his comfort; and feeling that, unmerited as might be the degree of his fond affection and confiding esteem, she could not, in her general conduct, be open to any severe reproach.
austen|And will you give yourself the trouble of carrying similar assurances to his creditors in Meryton, of whom I shall subjoin a list according to his information?
dickens|I thought I overheard Miss Havisham answer,only it seemed so unlikely,Well?
austen|These days of confinement would have been, but for her private perplexities, remarkably comfortable, as such seclusion exactly suited her brother, whose feelings must always be of great importance to his companions; and he had, besides, so thoroughly cleared off his illhumour at Randalls, that his amiableness never failed him during the rest of his stay at Hartfield.
dickens|Have you no remembrance of the occasion?
austen|But who could have foreseen such an attention as this?
austen|I can imagine, that if you, as you are, Mr Knightley, were to be transported and placed all at once in Mr Frank Churchills situation, you would be able to say and do just what you have been recommending for him; and it might have a very good effect.
austen|In a country life I conceive it to be a sort of necessary; for, let a woman have ever so many resources, it is not possible for her to be always shut up at home;and very long walks, you knowin summer there is dust, and in winter there is dirt.
austen|She thought it in reality a sad exchange for herself, to have him with his grave looks and reluctant conversation opposed to her instead of his brother.
austen|Do you know Miss Batess niece?
dickens|Once, I actually did start out of bed in the night, and begin to dress myself in my worst clothes, hurriedly intending to leave him there with everything else I possessed, and enlist for India as a private soldier.
dickens|O Heaven our suffering!
dickens|Although I saw him every day, it was for only a short time; hence, the regularly recurring spaces of our separation were long enough to record on his face any slight changes that occurred in his physical state.
dickens|You must instantly be obedient, still, and quiet.
austen|what is to be done?
dickens|No other company was in the house than the landlord, his wife, and a grizzled male creature, the Jack of the little causeway, who was as slimy and smeary as if he had been lowwater mark too.
dickens|Wouldnt She weep for you?
austen|Many a time has she said so; and yet I am no advocate for entire seclusion.
dickens|I asked him.
austen|I shall not go away till you have given me the assurance I require.
austen|It has been most unconsciously done, however, and I hope will be of short duration.
austen|In the hall they parted.
dickens|We shall not see the triumph.
dickens|Estella, dearest Estella, do not let Miss Havisham lead you into this fatal step.
austen|Obstinate, headstrong girl!
austen|I have not forgot, you see; and I assure you, I was very much disappointed that you did not come back and keep your engagement.
austen|I am sure I had much rather hear you.
austen|You used us abominably ill, answered Mrs Hurst, running away without telling us that you were coming out.
austen|They stood for some time without speaking a word; and she began to imagine that their silence was to last through the two dances, and at first was resolved not to break it; till suddenly fancying that it would be the greater punishment to her partner to oblige him to talk, she made some slight observation on the dance.
austen|She had not been prepared to have Jane Fairfax succeed Mr Elton; but he was actually hurried off by Miss Bates, she jumped away from him at last abruptly to the Coles, to usher in a letter from her niece.
austen|Mrs Collins knew not what to make of him.
austen|What did Colonel Forster say?
dickens|Told me!
dickens|Always petitions!
austen|Oh!
austen|This is like giving ourselves a slap, to be sure!
dickens|I have overheard words of that womans, tonight, which have presented their danger to me in strong colours.
austen|Emma could not bear to give him pain.
dickens|I hold another card, Mr Barsad.
austen|my dear, as Perry says, where health is at stake, nothing else should be considered; and if one is to travel, there is not much to chuse between forty miles and an hundred.
dickens|I first become aware of myself down in Essex, a thieving turnips for my living.
dickens|I know what I know.
dickens|It came on briskly, and came up to the front of the chateau.
austen|Worse and worse.
austen|Mr Collins had a compliment, and an allusion to throw in here, which were kindly smiled on by the mother and daughter.
dickens|As there was no business objection to this, and as he foresaw that even if it were all well with Charles, and he were to be released, he could not hope to leave the city, Mr Lorry went out in quest of such a lodging, and found a suitable one, high up in a removed bystreet where the closed blinds in all the other windows of a high melancholy square of buildings marked deserted homes.
dickens|Stir about there, now, for Concord!
austen|How well you put it on!
dickens|You?
dickens|Tell me, how does this relapse come about?
dickens|She has some recent association with the number twelve?
austen|I shall be sure to say three dull things as soon as ever I open my mouth, shant I?
austen|Perhaps she might; but it is not every mans fate to marry the woman who loves him best.
dickens|How anxious, how dismal, how long!
austen|In terms of grateful acknowledgment for the kindness of his brother, though expressed most concisely, he then delivered on paper his perfect approbation of all that was done, and his willingness to fulfil the engagements that had been made for him.
austen|She joined them at the wall, and found them more engaged in talking than in looking around.
austen|I had no notion but he would go ashooting, or something or other, and not disturb us with his company.
dickens|It being Saturday night, I found the landlord looking rather grimly at these records; but as my business was with Joe and not with him, I merely wished him good evening, and passed into the common room at the end of the passage, where there was a bright large kitchen fire, and where Joe was smoking his pipe in company with Mr Wopsle and a stranger.
austen|You owe me no apologies; and every body to whom you might be supposed to owe them, is so perfectly satisfied, so delighted even  You are very kind, but I know what my manners were to you.
austen|Consider, she is sitting downwhich naturally presents a differentwhich in short gives exactly the ideaand the proportions must be preserved, you know.
austen|Her mother only scolded her for being nonsensical.
austen|Yes, and I hope to engage you to be serious likewise.
dickens|Should I fling myself away upon the man who would the soonest feel if people do feel such things that I took nothing to him?
austen|The feelings which, you tell me, have long prevented the acknowledgment of your regard, can have little difficulty in overcoming it after this explanation.
dickens|And four?
austen|Yet she could not bear this silence.
dickens|This time, he was entirely changed.
dickens|Magnificent!
dickens|Who goes here?
dickens|The man obeyed, and Defarge followed the light closely with his eyes.
dickens|Molly, said Mr Jaggers, not looking at her, but obstinately looking at the opposite side of the room, let them see both your wrists.
dickens|Thats the name for a thousand pound!
austen|He had, by that time, realised an easy competenceenough to secure the purchase of a little estate adjoining Highbury, which he had always longed forenough to marry a woman as portionless even as Miss Taylor, and to live according to the wishes of his own friendly and social disposition.
austen|But there seems an indelicacy in directing his attentions towards her so soon after this event.
dickens|Provincial, said the spy.
dickens|Then is it your opinion, I inquired, with some little indignation, that a man should never  Invest portable property in a friend?
dickens|Where could he be?
austen|They were interrupted by Miss Bennet, who came to fetch her mothers tea.
austen|He shook his head; but there was a smile of indulgence with it, and he only said,  I shall not scold you.
dickens|I say when I rendered it; I am speaking of the past.
austen|She had bound herself to do it, in such an hour of Mr Knightleys absence, or when it came to the point her heart would have failed her, and she must have put it off; but Mr Knightley was to come at such a time, and follow up the beginning she was to make.
dickens|As Young Jerry, thus encouraged, went on a few yards in advance, to plant the stool in the shadow of the Bar, Mr Cruncher added to himself Jerry, you honest tradesman, theres hopes wot that boy will yet be a blessing to you, and a recompense to you for his mother!
dickens|What do you play, boy?
dickens|Ah, but he would be well content to precipitate himself over the hillside once again, as on the evening when he and I first encountered, close to the same spot!
austen|It comes to the same thing.
austen|The surprise of such an application was great indeed; it was too great for her to know in what manner she acceded to it.
dickens|As to strong beer, theres enough of it in the cellars already, to drown the Manor House.
dickens|I turned round to do so, and had taken up the candle in my hand, when it was extinguished by some violent shock; and the next thing I comprehended was, that I had been caught in a strong running noose, thrown over my head from behind.
dickens|when he come for to hear thathey?
austen|We dressed up Chamberlayne in womans clothes on purpose to pass for a lady, only think what fun!
dickens|Miss Pross at home?
austen|He wishes his boys to be active and hardy; and if they misbehave, can give them a sharp word now and then; but he is an affectionate fathercertainly Mr John Knightley is an affectionate father.
dickens|said The Vengeance, and embraced her.
dickens|A bottle of good claret after dinner does a digger in the red coals no harm, otherwise than as it has a tendency to throw him out of work.
austen|And yet, said Emma, beginning hastily and with an arch look, but soon stoppingit was better, however, to know the worst at onceshe hurried onAnd yet, perhaps, you may hardly be aware yourself how highly it is.
austen|It was not to oblige Jane Fairfax therefore that he would have preferred the society of William Larkins.
austen|But you will do every thing right.
dickens|Tramping, begging, thieving, working sometimes when I could,though that warnt as often as you may think, till you put the question whether you would ha been overready to give me work yourselves,a bit of a poacher, a bit of a laborer, a bit of a wagoner, a bit of a haymaker, a bit of a hawker, a bit of most things that dont pay and lead to trouble, I got to be a man.
dickens|Then potentially I may not and I cannot go home; and I might not, could not, would not, and should not go home; until I felt that I was going distracted, and rolled over on the pillow, and looked at the staring rounds upon the wall again.
dickens|Just so, said Mr Jaggers, thats my answer.
austen|Frank Churchill placed a word before Miss Fairfax.
austen|I wish I could say, for the sake of her family, that the accomplishment of her earnest desire in the establishment of so many of her children produced so happy an effect as to make her a sensible, amiable, wellinformed woman for the rest of her life; though perhaps it was lucky for her husband, who might not have relished domestic felicity in so unusual a form, that she still was occasionally nervous and invariably silly.
austen|I have reason to think, he replied, that Harriet Smith will soon have an offer of marriage, and from a most unexceptionable quarterRobert Martin is the man.
austen|You are severe on us.
austen|just behind.
austen|Her father composed himself to sleep after dinner, as usual, and she had then only to sit and think of what she had lost.
austen|Yours sincerely, etc.
austen|I cannot acquit him of that duty; nor could I think well of the man who should omit an occasion of testifying his respect towards anybody connected with the family.
dickens|So he says, resumed the convict I had recognized,it was all said and done in half a minute, behind a pile of timber in the Dockyard,Youre a going to be discharged?
dickens|So did I.
dickens|I shall be down soon and often.
austen|Their brother, indeed, was the only one of the party whom she could regard with any complacency.
austen|You cannot refuse to dance, I am sure when so much beauty is before you.
dickens|All that I may tell you, here and now, is, that I pray to you to touch me and to bless me.
dickens|Thus calling him back as I went out of the door, I heard her say to Joe in a distinct emphatic voice, The boy has been a good boy here, and that is his reward.
austen|He even looked at her with a smile of affected incredulity.
dickens|She was mightily pleased to have your message, when I gave it her.
austen|In a few days more we may gain some news of them; and till we know that they are not married, and have no design of marrying, do not let us give the matter over as lost.
dickens|But, that circumstance too, had had its influence in his course.
dickens|It was like striking out a horseshoe complete, in a single blow.
dickens|Monseigneur gone, and the three strong men absolving themselves from the sin of having drawn his high wages, by being more than ready and willing to cut his throat on the altar of the dawning Republic one and indivisible of Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, or Death, Monseigneurs house had been first sequestrated, and then confiscated.
austen|My first enjoyment, replied John Knightley, as they passed through the sweepgate, will be to find myself safe at Hartfield again.
austen|Now, according to my idea of Mrs Churchill, it would be most natural, that while she makes no sacrifice for the comfort of the husband, to whom she owes every thing, while she exercises incessant caprice towards him, she should frequently be governed by the nephew, to whom she owes nothing at all.
dickens|His coming back was a venture, he said, and he had always known it to be a venture.
dickens|So, Estella and I went out into the garden by the gate through which I had strayed to my encounter with the pale young gentleman, now Herbert; I, trembling in spirit and worshipping the very hem of her dress; she, quite composed and most decidedly not worshipping the hem of mine.
austen|Once, I felt the fire rather too much; but then I moved back my chair a little, a very little, and it did not disturb me.
dickens|Dont let your sober face elate you, however; you dont know what it may come to.
austen|The same civilities and courtesies, the same success and satisfaction, took place on the morrow, and accompanied the whole progress of the picture, which was rapid and happy.
dickens|Thats the kind of thing for you.
austen|Accordingly, when she retired at night, she asked the chambermaid whether Pemberley were not a very fine place?
austen|Some people were always cross when they were hot.
dickens|At extermination, said madame.
dickens|And what coarse hands he has!
dickens|I heard the sidedoor open, and steps come across the courtyard; but I pretended not to hear, even when the gate swung on its rusty hinges.
austen|And again, on Emmas merely turning her head to look at Mrs Batess knitting, she added, in a half whisper,  I mentioned no names, you will observe.
austen|I believe he is one of the very besttempered men that ever existed.
dickens|First, with her left hand she jammed the loaf hard and fast against her bib,where it sometimes got a pin into it, and sometimes a needle, which we afterwards got into our mouths.
austen|She could not determine how her mother would take it; sometimes doubting whether all his wealth and grandeur would be enough to overcome her abhorrence of the man.
austen|It was no more than the principals were prepared for; they had calculated from the time of its being known at Randalls, how soon it would be over Highbury; and were thinking of themselves, as the evening wonder in many a family circle, with great sagacity.
dickens|As to mewill you never understand that I am incorrigible?
austen|Had you witnessed my behaviour there, I can hardly suppose you would ever have thought well of me again.
dickens|This was bringing me I felt towards dangerous ground.
dickens|The tide will serve pretty nicely at about two in the afternoon, sir.
dickens|But, if any man in that neighborhood could stand uplong against Joe, I never saw the man.
austen|Everybody is disgusted with his pride.
dickens|With this assistant, I went down to the boat again, and we all came ashore, and brought out the oars, and rudder and boathook, and all else, and hauled her up for the night.
austen|There is no indignity so abhorrent to their feelings!
dickens|I therefore got up and put on my clothes, and went out across the yard into the long stone passage, designing to gain the outer courtyard and walk there for the relief of my mind.
austen|I am more likely to want more time than courage, Elizabeth.
austen|How delighted Miss Darcy will be to receive such a letter!
austen|Elizabeth, to whom Jane very soon communicated the chief of all this, heard it in silent indignation.
dickens|What with the cries aboard the steamer, and the furious blowing off of her steam, and her driving on, and our driving on, I could not at first distinguish sky from water or shore from shore; but the crew of the galley righted her with great speed, and, pulling certain swift strong strokes ahead, lay upon their oars, every man looking silently and eagerly at the water astern.
dickens|Ive seen my boy, and he can be a gentleman without me.
austen|An invitation to dinner was soon afterwards dispatched; and already had Mrs Bennet planned the courses that were to do credit to her housekeeping, when an answer arrived which deferred it all.
austen|No, it was long enough, broad enough, handsome enough.
dickens|Biddy giv herself a deal o trouble with me afore I left for I am almost awful dull, as I should view it in this light, and, viewing it in this light, as I should so put it.
dickens|Well?
dickens|All done, all gone!
austen|But, Mr Knightley, are you perfectly sure that she has absolutely and downright accepted him.
dickens|It is good, until recalled.
austen|her understanding excellent, her mind improved, and her manners captivating.
dickens|As to the result, its a tossup.
dickens|As to Pip, hes going up town, said Joe.
austen|Highbury, the large and populous village, almost amounting to a town, to which Hartfield, in spite of its separate lawn, and shrubberies, and name, did really belong, afforded her no equals.
austen|Oh!
dickens|Now dont be angry at my asking all these questions; because I am a mere dull man of business, and you are a woman of business.
dickens|Of barges, sailing colliers, and coastingtraders, there were perhaps, as many as now; but of steamships, great and small, not a tithe or a twentieth part so many.
dickens|If Sydney Carton ever shone anywhere, he certainly never shone in the house of Doctor Manette.
austen|I know that is the feeling of you all.
dickens|wont his manners do then?
dickens|Dissatisfied, and uncomfortable, andwhat would it signify to me, being coarse and common, if nobody had told me so!
dickens|Yes; even though I was so wretched in having him at large and near me, and even though I would far rather have worked at the forge all the days of my life than I would ever have come to this!
austen|Emma demurred.
austen|Only give me a carteblanche.
austen|Such things in general cannot be too short.
dickens|Lastly, came my Lord himself, turning the suit of clothes, now inside out, now outside in, but on the whole decidedly trimming and shaping them into graveclothes for the prisoner.
dickens|Oh!
dickens|Thats the way with this boy!
austen|Jane then took it from her pocketbook, and gave it to Elizabeth.
dickens|Pray, pray, be cautious!
austen|Harriet looked grave.
dickens|My patroness, too, might hear of him, and not approve.
dickens|However, father and daughter did at last appear, and Miss Pross was ready at the street door to receive them.
dickens|There was soon but one person left of all the crowd, and he, with his hat under his arm and his snuffbox in his hand, slowly passed among the mirrors on his way out.
dickens|said Joe, when I had finished.
austen|If, indeed, it should be so!
dickens|Quick!
austen|You may as well call it impertinence at once.
austen|I must beg, therefore, to be importuned no farther on the subject.
dickens|I took it upon myself to impress Biddy and through Biddy, Joe with the grave obligation I considered my friends under, to know nothing and say nothing about the maker of my fortune.
dickens|And if you could say that to me then, you will not hesitate to say that to me now,now, when suffering has been stronger than all other teaching, and has taught me to understand what your heart used to be.
dickens|Im only master of my own trade.
dickens|We found the air as carefully excluded from both, as if air were fatal to life; and there were more dirty clothes and bandboxes under the beds than I should have thought the family possessed.
dickens|He had been apprised that the final hour was Three, and he knew he would be summoned some time earlier, inasmuch as the tumbrils jolted heavily and slowly through the streets.
austen|He is a gentleman; I am a gentlemans daughter; so far we are equal.
dickens|My dream was out; my wild fancy was surpassed by sober reality; Miss Havisham was going to make my fortune on a grand scale.
austen|There, shut into her own room, as soon as their visitor left them, she could think without interruption of all that she had heard.
dickens|Never did the moon rise with a milder radiance over great London, than on that night when it found them still seated under the tree, and shone upon their faces through its leaves.
austen|Do help me.
austen|He seemed scarcely to hear her, and was walking up and down the room in earnest meditation, his brow contracted, his air gloomy.
dickens|Think, dear friend!
austen|I deserve neither such praise nor such censure, cried Elizabeth; I am not a great reader, and I have pleasure in many things.
dickens|The turnkey laughed, and gave us good day, and stood laughing at us over the spikes of the wicket when we descended the steps into the street.
dickens|My first thought was one of great thankfulness that I had never breathed this last baffled hope to Joe.
austen|That is an uncommon advantage, and uncommon I hope it will continue, for it would be a great loss to me to have many such acquaintances.
austen|Then pray stay at Richmond.
austen|I thought I could not be so deceived; but now, it is clear; the state of his mind is as clear and decided, as my wishes on the subject have been ever since I knew you.
austen|There was no recovering Miss Taylornor much likelihood of ceasing to pity her; but a few weeks brought some alleviation to Mr Woodhouse.
dickens|Every one of those had perished in the massacre; every human creature he had since cared for and parted with, had died on the scaffold.
dickens|It will be his Ghostnot him!
austen|Mr Martin, I suppose, is not a man of information beyond the line of his own business?
austen|With this inspiriting notion, her questions increased in number and meaning; and she particularly led Harriet to talk more of Mr Martin, and there was evidently no dislike to it.
austen|You know what you are about.
dickens|Tell me how and why am I again a prisoner?
austen|We have reason to imagine that his aunt, Lady Catherine de Bourgh, does not look on the match with a friendly eye.
austen|With what delighted pride she afterwards visited Mrs Bingley, and talked of Mrs Darcy, may be guessed.
dickens|The peril of an old servant and a good one, whose only crime was fidelity to himself and his family, stared him so reproachfully in the face, that, as he walked to and fro in the Temple considering what to do, he almost hid his face from the passersby.
dickens|A wonderful fact to reflect upon, that every human creature is constituted to be that profound secret and mystery to every other.
austen|He was very much pleased with Randalls, thought it a most admirably arranged house, would hardly allow it even to be very small, admired the situation, the walk to Highbury, Highbury itself, Hartfield still more, and professed himself to have always felt the sort of interest in the country which none but ones own country gives, and the greatest curiosity to visit it.
dickens|And I saw Wemmicks lips form the words portable property.
dickens|Yes.
dickens|Biddy, said I, when I gave her my hand at parting, I am not angry, but I am hurt.
austen|if one could but go to Brighton!
austen|He dared not stay longer than to see her well; these several delays left him not another minute to lose; and Emma engaging to give assurance of her safety to Mrs Goddard, and notice of there being such a set of people in the neighbourhood to Mr Knightley, he set off, with all the grateful blessings that she could utter for her friend and herself.
dickens|He is a traitor since the decree.
dickens|Then, traversing with the decided step of one who remembered the way well, several dark and dirty streetsmuch dirtier than usual, for the best public thoroughfares remained uncleansed in those times of terrorhe stopped at a chemists shop, which the owner was closing with his own hands.
austen|Actually to discover that Mr Knightley is a gentleman!
austen|It is Mrs Dixon, I dare say.
austen|Yours, etc.
dickens|Here I am!
dickens|Walk me, walk me!
dickens|So I changed my excuse into an acceptance,the few words I had uttered, serving for the beginning of either,and we went along Cheapside and slanted off to Little Britain, while the lights were springing up brilliantly in the shop windows, and the street lamplighters, scarcely finding ground enough to plant their ladders on in the midst of the afternoons bustle, were skipping up and down and running in and out, opening more red eyes in the gathering fog than my rushlight tower at the Hummums had opened white eyes in the ghostly wall.
austen|He had not a temper to bear the sort of competition in which we stoodthe sort of preference which was often given me.
dickens|He was to remain shut up in the chambers while I was gone, and was on no account to open the door.
austen|No; he never saw him till the other morning at Meryton.
dickens|Why, I knowd you at Gargerys when you was so small a wolf that I could have took your weazen betwixt this finger and thumb and chucked you away dead as Id thoughts o doing, odd times, when I see you loitering amongst the pollards on a Sunday, and you hadnt found no uncles then.
dickens|Let us hope so, said the uncle.
austen|But Emma, in her own mind, determined that he did know what he was talking about, and that he shewed a very amiable inclination to settle early in life, and to marry, from worthy motives.
austen|Now, maam, said Jane to her aunt, shall we join Mrs Elton?
dickens|Carton terminated the conversation here, by rising to help him on with his outer coat; But you, said Mr Lorry, reverting to the theme, you are young.
austen|Nothing of the sort had ever occurred before to any young ladies in the place, within her memory; no rencontre, no alarm of the kind;and now it had happened to the very person, and at the very hour, when the other very person was chancing to pass by to rescue her!
austen|She followed him thither; and her curiosity to know what he had to tell her was heightened by the supposition of its being in some manner connected with the letter he held.
dickens|You may say yes, Jerry.
austen|One ought to use the same caution, perhaps, in judging of the conduct of any one individual of any one family; but Enscombe, I believe, certainly must not be judged by general rules she is so very unreasonable; and every thing gives way to her.
austen|For Harriet, it would be advantageous and delightful indeed.
austen|I think, on the contrary, when people shut themselves up entirely from society, it is a very bad thing; and that it is much more advisable to mix in the world in a proper degree, without living in it either too much or too little.
dickens|Now, said Mrs Joe, unwrapping herself with haste and excitement, and throwing her bonnet back on her shoulders where it hung by the strings, if this boy aint grateful this night, he never will be!
dickens|There he goes!
austen|Come, he knows himself there.
austen|Could I expect it to be otherwise!
dickens|There were none there, and she took from her pocket a yellow set of ivory tablets, mounted in tarnished gold, and wrote upon them with a pencil in a case of tarnished gold that hung from her neck.
dickens|The young lady, to whom all eyes had been turned before, and were now turned again, stood up where she had sat.
austen|Anywhere, so that Jane is not in a draught.
austen|Mr Gardiner expressed a wish of going round the whole park, but feared it might be beyond a walk.
austen|And you are never to stir out of doors till you can prove that you have spent ten minutes of every day in a rational manner.
dickens|He was.
dickens|Being allowed to purchase the means of writing, and a light, he sat down to write until such time as the prison lamps should be extinguished.
dickens|cried Miss Pross, bursting into tears.
dickens|I hope she will do well now, said Mr Lorry.
dickens|With that, he shook the snuff from his fingers as if he had shaken the dust from his feet, and quietly walked downstairs.
austen|She wanted to hear of him, when there seemed the least chance of gaining intelligence.
austen|My father depends on it.
dickens|Behind the furthest end of the brewery, was a rank garden with an old wall; not so high but that I could struggle up and hold on long enough to look over it, and see that the rank garden was the garden of the house, and that it was overgrown with tangled weeds, but that there was a track upon the green and yellow paths, as if some one sometimes walked there, and that Estella was walking away from me even then.
austen|The power of displaying the grandeur of his patroness to his wondering visitors, and of letting them see her civility towards himself and his wife, was exactly what he had wished for; and that an opportunity of doing it should be given so soon, was such an instance of Lady Catherines condescension, as he knew not how to admire enough.
dickens|The woodsawyer, who was a little man with a redundancy of gesture he had once been a mender of roads, cast a glance at the prison, pointed at the prison, and putting his ten fingers before his face to represent bars, peeped through them jocosely.
austen|They had several children.
dickens|Miss Havisham beckoned her to come close, and took up a jewel from the table, and tried its effect upon her fair young bosom and against her pretty brown hair.
dickens|The nephew looked at him, in vain, in passing on to the door.
austen|YesratherI have been thinking of it some little time.
austen|As for Mary, she was mistress enough of herself to whisper to Elizabeth, with a countenance of grave reflection, soon after they were seated at table  This is a most unfortunate affair, and will probably be much talked of.
dickens|Boy!
austen|My dear sir, do not make a stranger of me.
dickens|Having made this lunatic confession, I began to throw my tornup grass into the river, as if I had some thoughts of following it.
dickens|It brings in more confusion, and you want confusion.
austen|They had gone, in shortand very great had been the evident distress and confusion of the lady.
austen|Whenever James goes over to see his daughter, you know, she will be hearing of us.
austen|My style of writing is very different from yours.
austen|By teatime, however, the dose had been enough, and Mr Bennet was glad to take his guest into the drawingroom again, and, when tea was over, glad to invite him to read aloud to the ladies.
dickens|The rest followed in another carriage, and soon, in a neighbouring church, where no strange eyes looked on, Charles Darnay and Lucie Manette were happily married.
dickens|returned madame, coolly and lightly, if people use knives for such purposes, they have to pay for it.
dickens|Lucie shuddered as he threw two more billets into his basket, but it was impossible to be there while the woodsawyer was at work, and not be in his sight.
dickens|I must be put somewheres, dear boy.
austen|The whole party before them, indeed, excited a lively attention.
dickens|Temple Bar was hundreds of miles away, and Madame Defarge was drawing very near indeed.
dickens|With a weary sound that was not a sigh, nor a groan, he bent to work again, until the silence was again broken.
austen|He did every thing best in the world; and she was sure he would kill more birds on the first of September, than any body else in the country.
austen|You have delighted us long enough.
dickens|They must ha thought better ont for some reason or another, said the Jack, and gone down.
dickens|Mr Wopsle dropped into ask what was the matter surmising that a convict had been taken, but came running out in a great hurry.
austen|Miss Woodhouse, the comfort of being sometimes alone!
austen|She says I fidget her to death; and Miss Woodhouse looks as if she could almost say the same.
dickens|Of course I made no further effort to refer to it.
dickens|No, said Biddy, glancing over her shoulder again, he never told me so; but he dances at me, whenever he can catch my eye.
dickens|Herbert, can you ask me?
dickens|Samples of a people that had undergone a terrible grinding and regrinding in the mill, and certainly not in the fabulous mill which ground old people young, shivered at every corner, passed in and out at every doorway, looked from every window, fluttered in every vestige of a garment that the wind shook.
austen|I did not think you would; and that being the case, I cannot consider your situation with much compassion.
austen|No, not true on your side.
dickens|After not setting eyes upon you or hearing of you for so long a time, do I find you here!
dickens|As Mr Lorry received these confidences, and as he watched the face of his friend now sixtytwo years of age, a misgiving arose within him that such dread experiences would revive the old danger.
austen|And that made the men suspect something, and then they soon found out what was the matter.
austen|She got her to Hartfield, and shewed her the most unvarying kindness, striving to occupy and amuse her, and by books and conversation, to drive Mr Elton from her thoughts.
dickens|I took the opportunity of being alone in the courtyard to look at my coarse hands and my common boots.
austen|First of all, he asked Miss Lucas.
austen|This was a lucky idea of mine, indeed!
dickens|That I will, and readily, said Mr Lorry, if it is not dangerous.
dickens|said I.
dickens|Mr Pumblechook added, after a short interval of reflection, Look at Pork alone.
dickens|The old gentleman being still in a state of most estimable unconsciousness, the bridegroom cried out in his accustomed voice, Now Aged P.
dickens|And even if he had not told you so,though that is a very large If, I grant,could you believe that of all men in London, Mr Jaggers is the man to hold his present relations towards you unless he were sure of his ground?
austen|At such a time much might have been said, and silence was very awkward.
austen|Whether it was his own idea you know, one cannot tell.
dickens|Mr Pumblechook worked his head like a screw to screw it out of me, and said, Is fortythree pence seven and sixpence three fardens, for instance?
austen|Thank you.
austen|Mr Darcy, you cannot deny the fact.
dickens|And sleeping soundly.
dickens|But reflecting, before I got into his room, which was at the back of the house and adjoined mine, that he and Startop had had a harder day than I, and were fatigued, I forbore.
dickens|His eyes looked so awfully hungry too, that when I handed him the file and he laid it down on the grass, it occurred to me he would have tried to eat it, if he had not seen my bundle.
dickens|At sunset.
dickens|But he presently presented himself under worthier circumstances; for, the Genius of Youthful Love being in want of assistance,on account of the parental brutality of an ignorant farmer who opposed the choice of his daughters heart, by purposely falling upon the object, in a floursack, out of the firstfloor window,summoned a sententious Enchanter; and he, coming up from the antipodes rather unsteadily, after an apparently violent journey, proved to be Mr Wopsle in a highcrowned hat, with a necromantic work in one volume under his arm.
austen|She asked her, at different times, how many sisters she had, whether they were older or younger than herself, whether any of them were likely to be married, whether they were handsome, where they had been educated, what carriage her father kept, and what had been her mothers maiden name?
austen|It is natural that obligation should be felt, and if I could feel gratitude, I would now thank you.
austen|She consideredresolvedand, trying to smile, began  You have some news to hear, now you are come back, that will rather surprize you.
dickens|The fountain in the village flowed unseen and unheard, and the fountain at the chateau dropped unseen and unheardboth melting away, like the minutes that were falling from the spring of Timethrough three dark hours.
dickens|Indeed, I may say that I was a man of business when a boy.
dickens|You here again?
dickens|The trial came on at once, and, when he was put to the bar, he was seated in a chair.
austen|And who knows what may happen?
dickens|Sydney Carton filled another glass with brandy, poured it slowly out upon the hearth, and watched it as it dropped.
austen|The two girls had been whispering to each other during the whole visit, and the result of it was, that the youngest should tax Mr Bingley with having promised on his first coming into the country to give a ball at Netherfield.
austen|Till yesterday, I know he said he was in the dark as to her plans.
dickens|Happily unconscious of the new calamity at home, Miss Pross threaded her way along the narrow streets and crossed the river by the bridge of the PontNeuf, reckoning in her mind the number of indispensable purchases she had to make.
austen|But, in spite of all her friends urgency, and her own wish of seeing Ireland, Miss Fairfax prefers devoting the time to you and Mrs Bates?
austen|On the very last day of the regiments remaining at Meryton, he dined, with other of the officers, at Longbourn; and so little was Elizabeth disposed to part from him in good humour, that on his making some inquiry as to the manner in which her time had passed at Hunsford, she mentioned Colonel Fitzwilliams and Mr Darcys having both spent three weeks at Rosings, and asked him, if he was acquainted with the former.
dickens|You were a cannonier that day there, and you were among the first to enter the accursed fortress when it fell.
dickens|After what has happened, and after his recovery, I find it difficult to imagine any such violent sounding of that string again.
austen|and Dear Miss Woodhouse, was all that Harriet, with many tender embraces could articulate at first; but when they did arrive at something more like conversation, it was sufficiently clear to her friend that she saw, felt, anticipated, and remembered just as she ought.
dickens|Granted.
dickens|I looked as grateful as any boy possibly could, who was wholly uninformed why he ought to assume that expression.
dickens|From which, said Wemmick, conjectures had been raised and theories formed.
austen|They soon outstripped the others, and when they had reached the carriage, Mr and Mrs Gardiner were half a quarter of a mile behind.
dickens|Let me kiss my dear girl with an oldfashioned bachelor blessing, before Somebody comes to claim his own.
dickens|This time, Mr Lorry feigned to go out when he could extract no answer from him, and, after remaining absent for an hour, returned.
austen|Somebody talked of rain.
austen|She ran away to indulge the inclination, leaving the tender and the sublime of pleasure to Harriets share.
dickens|I should have said this sooner, but for my long mistake.
dickens|Nothing.
austen|I shall send this by express, that no time may be lost in bringing me your answer.
austen|She was not much deceived as to her own skill either as an artist or a musician, but she was not unwilling to have others deceived, or sorry to know her reputation for accomplishment often higher than it deserved.
dickens|He smiled at her unconscious admission that she would have been unhappy without Charles, having seen him; and replied  My child, you did see him, and it is Charles.
austen|As Harriet now lived, the Martins could not get at her, without seeking her, where hitherto they had wanted either the courage or the condescension to seek her; for since her refusal of the brother, the sisters never had been at Mrs Goddards; and a twelvemonth might pass without their being thrown together again, with any necessity, or even any power of speech.
austen|Surprizes are foolish things.
dickens|Ah!
austen|Or, why did he thus come a day before he was expected?
dickens|As to this case, if you will have scratches, we say that, for anything we know, you may have accounted for them, assuming for the sake of argument that you have not invented them?
austen|Was not it lucky?
austen|Her caution was thrown away.
austen|She must have felt the improper and dangerous distinction.
dickens|The road is clear, my dearest.
austen|After breakfast, the girls walked to Meryton to inquire if Mr Wickham were returned, and to lament over his absence from the Netherfield ball.
dickens|Aint it awful to see her so mad?
dickens|Also, I was told what my allowance was to be,it was a very liberal one,and had handed to me from one of my guardians drawers, the cards of certain tradesmen with whom I was to deal for all kinds of clothes, and such other things as I could in reason want.
austen|Good old Mrs BatesI will call upon her tomorrow, and take my children.
dickens|You have a returned Transport there, said the man who held the lines.
austen|Presently the carriage stopt; she looked up; it was stopt by Mr and Mrs Weston, who were standing to speak to her.
austen|There probably was something more to conceal than her own preference; Mr Dixon, perhaps, had been very near changing one friend for the other, or been fixed only to Miss Campbell, for the sake of the future twelve thousand pounds.
austen|I should be quite in the way.
austen|Emma got up on the morrow more disposed for comfort than she had gone to bed, more ready to see alleviations of the evil before her, and to depend on getting tolerably out of it.
dickens|It would not detain me, he had a coach in waiting.
dickens|And you, she said, in a voice of touching interest to a wanderer,you live abroad still?
dickens|He looked at them, and saw in them, without knowing it, the slow sure filing down of miseryworn face and figure, that was to make the meagreness of Frenchmen an English superstition which should survive the truth through the best part of a hundred years.
austen|Perhaps they began to feel it might have been kinder and wiser to have resisted the temptation of any delay, and spared her from a taste of such enjoyments of ease and leisure as must now be relinquished.
austen|I certainly will not persuade myself to feel more than I do.
dickens|He always slouched, locomotively, with his eyes on the ground; and, when accosted or otherwise required to raise them, he looked up in a halfresentful, halfpuzzled way, as though the only thought he ever had was, that it was rather an odd and injurious fact that he should never be thinking.
austen|Her days of insignificance and evil were over.
austen|it was such an inexpressible obligation!
dickens|Oh, botheration!
dickens|I am extremely sorry; but I knew there was a coach from your part of the country at midday, and I thought you would come by that one.
austen|Tomorrow fortnight.
austen|Miss Woodhouse, we must exert ourselves and endeavour to do something for her.
austen|It would be a disappointment to my fatherand altogetherI do not know thatI am rather of opinion that ten couple might stand here very well.
austen|Where a man does his best with only moderate powers, he will have the advantage over negligent superiority.
austen|My dear Harriet, what are you thinking of?
austen|He stopped in his earnestness to look the question, and the expression of his eyes overpowered her.
austen|But she had an almost instant doubt of his caring for her as he had done, of his feeling the same tenderness in the same degree.
austen|She looked at Jane, and smiled and shook her head by turns.
dickens|There is nothing in you to like; you know that.
austen|Ah!
austen|His father would not own himself uneasy, and laughed at her fears; but she could not be cured of wishing that he would part with his black mare.
dickens|Biddy, said I, when we were walking homeward, I wish you could put me right.
austen|And then when you go away, you may leave one or two of my sisters behind you; and I dare say I shall get husbands for them before the winter is over.
austen|As to any thing superior for you, I suppose she is quite in the dark.
austen|You could not have started a more happy idea, since you will not take comfort in mine.
dickens|On this post of his, Mr Cruncher was as well known to Fleetstreet and the Temple, as the Bar itself,and was almost as inlooking.
dickens|It is madness.
dickens|Defarge gave into his anxious hand, an open scrap of paper.
austen|were questions with which she amused herself.
austen|No,replied Emmaquite confirmed by the depressed manner in which he still spokeI should like to take another turn.
dickens|She looked at her watch, and it was twenty minutes past two.
dickens|No sooner was the acquittal pronounced, than tears were shed as freely as blood at another time, and such fraternal embraces were bestowed upon the prisoner by as many of both sexes as could rush at him, that after his long and unwholesome confinement he was in danger of fainting from exhaustion; none the less because he knew very well, that the very same people, carried by another current, would have rushed at him with the very same intensity, to rend him to pieces and strew him over the streets.
austen|Indeed they are very delightful apples, and Mrs Wallis does them full justiceonly we do not have them baked more than twice, and Mr Woodhouse made us promise to have them done three timesbut Miss Woodhouse will be so good as not to mention it.
dickens|You have been in every prospect I have ever seen since,on the river, on the sails of the ships, on the marshes, in the clouds, in the light, in the darkness, in the wind, in the woods, in the sea, in the streets.
dickens|There was a reasonably good path now, mostly on the edge of the river, with a divergence here and there where a dike came, with a miniature windmill on it and a muddy sluicegate.
austen|He seemed hardly to hear her; he was thoughtfuland in a manner which shewed him not pleased, soon afterwards said,  So you have been settling that I should marry Jane Fairfax?
dickens|Jerry, said Mr Cruncher, apostrophising himself in his usual way, you see that there Cly that day, and you see with your own eyes that he was a young un and a straight made un.
austen|Will that do?
austen|and yet you can treat the mention of his misfortune with contempt and ridicule.
dickens|Churchyard!
dickens|She said no more at the time; but she presently stopped and looked at me again; and presently again; and after that, looked frowning and moody.
dickens|The secret cells!
austen|That would have been too dreadful!
austen|My dear Charlotte and I have but one mind and one way of thinking.
austen|I do not know what your opinion may be, Mrs Weston, said Mr Knightley, of this great intimacy between Emma and Harriet Smith, but I think it a bad thing.
dickens|I too had fallen into the old ways, only happy and thankful that he let me.
dickens|And I am very happy tonight, dear father.
dickens|O my father!
dickens|But not for long.
dickens|Hardly any.
dickens|replied the strong woman.
austen|And my motherhow is she?
austen|Darcy said nothing at all.
dickens|Doctor Manette received such patients here as his old reputation, and its revival in the floating whispers of his story, brought him.
austen|She knew not what to think, or how to account for it.
dickens|I recalled the hopeless circumstances by which she had been surrounded in the miserable little shop and the miserable little noisy evening school, with that miserable old bundle of incompetence always to be dragged and shouldered.
dickens|He may have observed himself, and made the discovery.
dickens|No, said he, looking as if he hardly understood me.
dickens|The child answered her bravely, Yes!
austen|The occurrences of the day were too full of interest to leave Elizabeth much attention for any of these new friends; and she could do nothing but think, and think with wonder, of Mr Darcys civility, and, above all, of his wishing her to be acquainted with his sister.
austen|But you have not an idea of what is requisite in situations directly opposite to your own.
austen|He had a great regard for Mrs Goddard; and Emma should write a line, and invite her.
austen|What can be the meaning of that emphatic exclamation?
dickens|They took up several obviously wrong people, and they ran their heads very hard against wrong ideas, and persisted in trying to fit the circumstances to the ideas, instead of trying to extract ideas from the circumstances.
austen|In spite of her vexation, she could not help feeling it almost ridiculous, that she should have the very same distressing and delicate office to perform by Harriet, which Mrs Weston had just gone through by herself.
austen|Even Elizabeth might have found some trial of her patience in weather which totally suspended the improvement of her acquaintance with Mr Wickham; and nothing less than a dance on Tuesday, could have made such a Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday endurable to Kitty and Lydia.
austen|I am very glad to hear such a good account of her, said Lady Catherine; and pray tell her from me, that she cannot expect to excel if she does not practice a good deal.
dickens|And sharkheaders is open to misrepresentations.
dickens|She was nearing us very fast, and the beating of her peddles grew louder and louder.
dickens|A face of a transparent paleness; every feature in it clearly defined; one set expression on it.
austen|To such perseverance in wilful selfdeception Elizabeth would make no reply, and immediately and in silence withdrew; determined, if he persisted in considering her repeated refusals as flattering encouragement, to apply to her father, whose negative might be uttered in such a manner as to be decisive, and whose behaviour at least could not be mistaken for the affectation and coquetry of an elegant female.
dickens|said I.
austen|Emma was directly sure that he knew how to make himself agreeable; the conviction was strengthened by what followed.
dickens|Once, it had seemed to me that when I should at last roll up my shirtsleeves and go into the forge, Joes prentice, I should be distinguished and happy.
dickens|It is as the good patriot says, observed the timid functionary.
dickens|I am not so cunning, you see, I said, in answer, conscious that I reddened a little, as that I could hide from you, even if I desired, that I do want something.
dickens|I was.
dickens|Sometimes, at night on kissing her father, she would burst into the grief she had repressed all day, and would say that her sole reliance, under Heaven, was on him.
austen|There is jealousy.
dickens|Its something to have seen the object of ones love and duty for even so short a time.
austen|I must go and ask her whether it is an Irish fashion.
austen|The girls stared at their father.
dickens|Stare them out of countenance.
dickens|Ive been locked up as much as a silver teakittle.
austen|I see no advantage in consulting Miss Bates.
austen|Emma had hardly expected them for Mr Weston, who had called in for half a minute, in order to hear that his son was very handsome, knew nothing of their plans; and it was an agreeable surprize to her, therefore, to perceive them walking up to the house together, arm in arm.
austen|he was to come there with Wickham, you know.
dickens|May it soon terminate happily!
dickens|He was so much too big for Tellsons, that old clerks in distant corners looked up with looks of remonstrance, as though he squeezed them against the wall.
dickens|Mr Lorry saw that they understood one another, and proceeded.
austen|She understood their ways, could allow for their ignorance and their temptations, had no romantic expectations of extraordinary virtue from those for whom education had done so little; entered into their troubles with ready sympathy, and always gave her assistance with as much intelligence as goodwill.
austen|Elizabeth honoured him for such feelings, and thought him handsomer than ever as he expressed them.
austen|He was warm in his reprobation of Mr Eltons conduct; it had been unpardonable rudeness; and Mrs Eltons looks also received the due share of censure.
austen|I would by no means suspend any pleasure of yours, he coldly replied.
dickens|For now the last of the fleet of ships was round the last low point we had headed; and the last green barge, strawladen, with a brown sail, had followed; and some ballastlighters, shaped like a childs first rude imitation of a boat, lay low in the mud; and a little squat shoallighthouse on open piles stood crippled in the mud on stilts and crutches; and slimy stakes stuck out of the mud, and slimy stones stuck out of the mud, and red landmarks and tidemarks stuck out of the mud, and an old landingstage and an old roofless building slipped into the mud, and all about us was stagnation and mud.
austen|Can you come tomorrow?
austen|for as to any real knowledge of a persons disposition that Bath, or any public place, can giveit is all nothing; there can be no knowledge.
austen|He seldom appeared really animated.
austen|Never!
dickens|No crowd was about the door; no people were discernible at any of the many windows; not even a chance passerby was in the street.
dickens|If you are unable to make up your quantum, my boy, you had better address yourself to a principal; there are plenty of principals in the profession, you know, and what is not worth the while of one, may be worth the while of another; thats my recommendation to you, speaking as a subordinate.
dickens|On this certain fine Sunday, Mr Lorry walked towards Soho, early in the afternoon, for three reasons of habit.
dickens|You swear not to betray me?
dickens|Allow me to lead the way.
dickens|Her fingers stopped for the first time, as she retorted rather angrily, What have I told you?
dickens|He accepted the invitation.
dickens|She was a very handsome young woman, and I believe had some gypsy blood in her.
austen|You and I will have a nice basin of gruel together.
dickens|Besides, there had been no altercation; the assailant had come in so silently and suddenly, that she had been felled before she could look round.
dickens|As his eyes rested on a short, slight, pretty figure, a quantity of golden hair, a pair of blue eyes that met his own with an inquiring look, and a forehead with a singular capacity remembering how young and smooth it was, of rifting and knitting itself into an expression that was not quite one of perplexity, or wonder, or alarm, or merely of a bright fixed attention, though it included all the four expressionsas his eyes rested on these things, a sudden vivid likeness passed before him, of a child whom he had held in his arms on the passage across that very Channel, one cold time, when the hail drifted heavily and the sea ran high.
dickens|The river, still dark and mysterious, was spanned by bridges that were turning coldly gray, with here and there at top a warm touch from the burning in the sky.
austen|Come here, child, cried her father as she appeared.
dickens|As he now appeared in his doorway, towelling his hands, Wemmick got on his greatcoat and stood by to snuff out the candles.
austen|Miss Lucas is married and settled.
austen|he told me all about it; that Jane Fairfax and Mr Frank Churchill are to be married, and that they have been privately engaged to one another this long while.
austen|This was Mr Elton!
austen|The couplet does not cease to be, nor does its meaning change.
austen|But we are none of us consistent, and in his behaviour to me there were stronger impulses even than pride.
dickens|repeated Mr Wopsle, eyeing it, much at a loss.
dickens|Still, something must be done.
austen|And is Miss Darcy as handsome as her brother?
dickens|Youre right, old chap!
dickens|Whose?
dickens|To what last degree?
austen|Thats very like.
dickens|I will go, said Doctor Manette, to the Prosecutor and the President straight, and I will go to others whom it is better not to name.
austen|He was reckoned very handsome; his person much admired in general, though not by her, there being a want of elegance of feature which she could not dispense withbut the girl who could be gratified by a Robert Martins riding about the country to get walnuts for her might very well be conquered by Mr Eltons admiration.
austen|When the Westons arrived, the kindest looks of love, the strongest of admiration were for her, from both husband and wife; the son approached her with a cheerful eagerness which marked her as his peculiar object, and at dinner she found him seated by herand, as she firmly believed, not without some dexterity on his side.
dickens|No, no, no my friend; not to the top of the column; you know better than that; to the bottom, to the bottom.
dickens|Oh dear no.
dickens|Then, the ends of the torches were flung hissing into the water, and went out, as if it were all over with him.
dickens|I hope you are well!
dickens|I doubt if he can hold out long, though.
austen|Now, it would be really having Frank in their neighbourhood.
austen|She promised to think of it, and advised him to think of it more; but he was fully convinced, that no reflection could alter his wishes or his opinion on the subject.
dickens|However, as he thought his courtsuit necessary to the occasion, it was not for me to tell him that he looked far better in his workingdress; the rather, because I knew he made himself so dreadfully uncomfortable, entirely on my account, and that it was for me he pulled up his shirtcollar so very high behind, that it made the hair on the crown of his head stand up like a tuft of feathers.
dickens|Her father, cheering her, showed a compassionate superiority to this womans weakness, which was wonderful to see.
austen|And how beautiful we thought he looked!
dickens|You are going to her, I hope?
austen|His admiration was certainly very warm; yet she thought, but for Mrs Weston, it would not have struck her.
austen|Every feeling was offended; and the forbearance of her outward submission left a heavy arrear due of secret severity in her reflections on the unmanageable goodwill of Mr Westons temper.
dickens|Biddy sighed as she looked at the ships sailing on, and returned for answer, Yes; I am not overparticular.
austen|Do you really think so?
dickens|Why, if it aint your footstool!
austen|Well, I always shall think that you play quite as well as she does, or that if there is any difference nobody would ever find it out.
dickens|Have you dined with Mr Jaggers yet?
austen|Oh!
austen|Fancying you to have fathomed his secret.
dickens|It was an inconsistent and ubiquitous fiend too, for, while it was making the whole night behind him dreadful, he darted out into the roadway to avoid dark alleys, fearful of its coming hopping out of them like a dropsical boys kite without tail and wings.
austen|Nothing should tempt her to go, if they did; and she regretted that her fathers known habits would be giving her refusal less meaning than she could wish.
dickens|I am sure I have every reason to say so.
austen|Very few days passed in which Mr Collins did not walk to Rosings, and not many in which his wife did not think it necessary to go likewise; and till Elizabeth recollected that there might be other family livings to be disposed of, she could not understand the sacrifice of so many hours.
dickens|I had a doublecaped greatcoat on, and over my arm another thick coat.
dickens|As it was, she merely stipulated, If you bring the boy back with his head blown to bits by a musket, dont look to me to put it together again.
dickens|Wishing to embrace the present occasion of finding out whether in teaching Joe, I should have to begin quite at the beginning, I said, Ah!
austen|How do you do, Mr Richard?
austen|Dear me!
dickens|While I looked about me here, an exceedingly dirty and partially drunk minister of justice asked me if I would like to step in and hear a trial or so informing me that he could give me a front place for half a crown, whence I should command a full view of the Lord Chief Justice in his wig and robes,mentioning that awful personage like waxwork, and presently offering him at the reduced price of eighteenpence.
dickens|He sat her down just within the door, and held her, clinging to him.
austen|He was very much agitatedvery much, indeedto a degree that made him appear quite a different creature from any thing I had ever seen him before.
dickens|And at night his reading was lovely.
austen|Emmas courage returned, and she walked on.
dickens|One black ox, with a white cravat on,who even had to my awakened conscience something of a clerical air,fixed me so obstinately with his eyes, and moved his blunt head round in such an accusatory manner as I moved round, that I blubbered out to him, I couldnt help it, sir!
dickens|As I shut it, Saint Pauls, and all the many churchclocks in the Citysome leading, some accompanying, some followingstruck that hour.
dickens|If that be so, do you see what, on the other hand, is involved in it?
dickens|We shall not be separated long.
dickens|We played with flags, I said.
austen|How to do her best by Harriet, was of more difficult decision;how to spare her from any unnecessary pain; how to make her any possible atonement; how to appear least her enemy?
austen|My faults, according to this calculation, are heavy indeed!
austen|She will be married!
dickens|For months afterwards, I every day settled the question finally in the negative, and reopened and reargued it next morning.
austen|These two girls had been above an hour in the place, happily employed in visiting an opposite milliner, watching the sentinel on guard, and dressing a salad and cucumber.
dickens|Madame complied with a polite air.
austen|Sixteen milesnay, eighteenit must be full eighteen to Manchesterstreetwas a serious obstacle.
dickens|As she was very bad handwriting apart a more than indifferent speller, and as Joe was a more than indifferent reader, extraordinary complications arose between them which I was always called in to solve.
austen|I hate the recollection.
dickens|Oh!
dickens|said he.
austen|No, not at all.
dickens|Sessions and Old Bailey had now to summon their favourite, specially, to their longing arms; and shouldering itself towards the visage of the Lord Chief Justice in the Court of Kings Bench, the florid countenance of Mr Stryver might be daily seen, bursting out of the bed of wigs, like a great sunflower pushing its way at the sun from among a rank gardenfull of flaring companions.
dickens|I say a horse at a canter coming up, Joe.
dickens|Mr Wopsle was beginning, I can only say when the stranger stopped him.
dickens|Thats a card not to be beaten.
dickens|So polite and so impressible was Monseigneur, that the Comedy and the Grand Opera had far more influence with him in the tiresome articles of state affairs and state secrets, than the needs of all France.
dickens|If that is all you have to say, sir, I remarked, there can be nothing left for me to say.
dickens|Walworth.
dickens|After three days more of recovery, I went down to the old place to put it in execution.
austen|Your plan is a good one, replied Elizabeth, where nothing is in question but the desire of being well married, and if I were determined to get a rich husband, or any husband, I dare say I should adopt it.
dickens|Now, let me recommend you, pursued Stryver, to look it in the face.
dickens|I had so much time to spare, that the proposal came as a relief, notwithstanding its irreconcilability with my latent desire to keep my eye on the coachoffice.
austen|Take your own.
austen|It was not with Mrs Suckling, it was not with Mrs Bragge, but in felicity and splendour it fell short only of them it was with a cousin of Mrs Bragge, an acquaintance of Mrs Suckling, a lady known at Maple Grove.
dickens|Theres no one nigh, said he, looking over his shoulder; is there?
austen|You do quite right, said she;we will make your apologies to Mr and Mrs Weston.
austen|Mrs Westons poultryhouse was robbed one night of all her turkeysevidently by the ingenuity of man.
dickens|Hem!
austen|It was all conjecture.
austen|Jane could have no reserves from Elizabeth, where confidence would give pleasure; and instantly embracing her, acknowledged, with the liveliest emotion, that she was the happiest creature in the world.
austen|and it is such a good joke, too, that you should have gone this morning and never said a word about it till now.
austen|Anne, my dear, did not I always tell you so, and you would not believe me?
austen|The present unhappy state of the family rendered any other excuse for the lowness of her spirits unnecessary; nothing, therefore, could be fairly conjectured from that, though Elizabeth, who was by this time tolerably well acquainted with her own feelings, was perfectly aware that, had she known nothing of Darcy, she could have borne the dread of Lydias infamy somewhat better.
austen|Oh that I had been with you!
austen|Day after day passed away without bringing any other tidings of him than the report which shortly prevailed in Meryton of his coming no more to Netherfield the whole winter; a report which highly incensed Mrs Bennet, and which she never failed to contradict as a most scandalous falsehood.
austen|The most indefatigable, true friend.
dickens|This was always followed by Collinss Ode on the Passions, wherein I particularly venerated Mr Wopsle as Revenge throwing his bloodstained sword in thunder down, and taking the Wardenouncing trumpet with a withering look.
dickens|Jerry, left alone in the mist and darkness, dismounted meanwhile, not only to ease his spent horse, but to wipe the mud from his face, and shake the wet out of his hatbrim, which might be capable of holding about half a gallon.
austen|Mr Knightley suspected in Frank Churchill the determination of catching her eyehe seemed watching her intentlyin vain, however, if it were soJane passed between them into the hall, and looked at neither.
dickens|Either tell her that I demand to see her, or stand out of the way of the door and let me go to her!
dickens|In some of her looks and gestures there was that tinge of resemblance to Miss Havisham which may often be noticed to have been acquired by children, from grown person with whom they have been much associated and secluded, and which, when childhood is passed, will produce a remarkable occasional likeness of expression between faces that are otherwise quite different.
austen|I am afraid you will be angry.
austen|It was natural to have some civil hopes on the subject, and he said,  I hope you did not venture far, Miss Fairfax, this morning, or I am sure you must have been wet.
austen|They only give a little polish.
dickens|said I.
austen|What a letter the man writes!
dickens|This third interchange of the Christian name was completed at the moment when Madame Defarge put her toothpick by, kept her eyebrows up, and slightly rustled in her seat.
austen|I know that such a girl as Harriet is exactly what every man delights inwhat at once bewitches his senses and satisfies his judgment.
dickens|Yes, dear Pip.
dickens|Do you play?
dickens|If youd have the condethenthun to be bought off from the tother thideat hany thuperior prithe!
dickens|It will not surprise you, it will not displease you.
dickens|I can bear it, said Estella.
austen|Are you out of your senses, to be accepting this man?
austen|Her sister, though comparatively but little removed by matrimony, being settled in London, only sixteen miles off, was much beyond her daily reach; and many a long October and November evening must be struggled through at Hartfield, before Christmas brought the next visit from Isabella and her husband, and their little children, to fill the house, and give her pleasant society again.
austen|He appears rough to you, said Emma, because you are so very gentle yourself; but if you could compare him with other papas, you would not think him rough.
dickens|I timidly explained.
dickens|It was quite in vain for me to endeavor to make him sensible that he ought to speak to Miss Havisham.
austen|Her astonishment at his comingat his coming to Netherfield, to Longbourn, and voluntarily seeking her again, was almost equal to what she had known on first witnessing his altered behaviour in Derbyshire.
austen|I mention it, because it is the living which I ought to have had.
austen|She was extremely angry with herself.
austen|And so, is it quite certain he is coming?
dickens|Then I washed and dressed while they knocked the furniture about and made a dust; and so, in a sort of dream or sleepwaking, I found myself sitting by the fire again, waiting forHimto come to breakfast.
dickens|He cannot pay something?
dickens|I shall mind nothing when I let it go, if they are rapid.
austen|At length there was nothing more to be said; the ladies drove on, and the others returned into the house.
austen|Is not this an agreeable surprise?
austen|And when is Miss Fairfax to leave you?
dickens|There is a great crowd bearing down upon us, Miss Manette, and I see themby the Lightning.
austen|Those curls!
austen|yes, gloves and every thing.
dickens|He stopped there, and faced round.
austen|While you were at all in suspense I kept my feelings to myself, but now that you are so completely decided I have no hesitation in approving.
dickens|Now, said Mr Lorry, gently laying his hand on the Doctors arm again, after a short silence on both sides, to what would you refer this attack?
dickens|Oh!
dickens|On a Monday morning, when Herbert and I were at breakfast, I received the following letter from Wemmick by the post.
austen|I do not know who would ever look at him in the company of the other.
dickens|Every day.
dickens|Our oarsmen were so fresh, by dint of having occasionally let her drive with the tide for a minute or two, that a quarter of an hours rest proved full as much as they wanted.
dickens|If you please, sir.
dickens|Now, which of the multitude of faces that showed themselves before him was the true face of the buried person, the shadows of the night did not indicate; but they were all the faces of a man of fiveandforty by years, and they differed principally in the passions they expressed, and in the ghastliness of their worn and wasted state.
dickens|Nor yet no one aint.
austen|She had soon fixed on the size and sort of portrait.
austen|Nobody is equal to you!
austen|Elizabeth now began to revive.
austen|Then it would not be so strong a sense.
austen|Every body is asleep!
austen|That is very strange.
austen|As you will do it, it will indeed, to use your own words, be an exquisite possession.
dickens|We are ready!
austen|Wickham will soon be gone; and therefore it will not signify to anyone here what he really is.
dickens|He came to her relief with a fixed despair of himself which made the interview unlike any other that could have been holden.
dickens|This new denunciation will certainly not take place until after tomorrow; probably not until two or three days afterwards; more probably a week afterwards.
austen|Do you think it is a good one?
dickens|Take Startop.
austen|Elizabeth could safely say that it was a great happiness where that was the case, and with equal sincerity could add, that she firmly believed and rejoiced in his domestic comforts.
dickens|And it is, Biddy, said I, that you will not omit any opportunity of helping Joe on, a little.
dickens|Youll hardly believe what I am going to tell you.
austen|It had always been evident to her that such an income as theirs, under the direction of two persons so extravagant in their wants, and heedless of the future, must be very insufficient to their support; and whenever they changed their quarters, either Jane or herself were sure of being applied to for some little assistance towards discharging their bills.
austen|She was of great use and comfort to us all.
austen|Jane speaks so distinct!
dickens|But when she was gone, I looked about me for a place to hide my face in, and got behind one of the gates in the brewerylane, and leaned my sleeve against the wall there, and leaned my forehead on it and cried.
austen|If he had not had a family of his own, I and my children must have had all his money, you know; and it is the first time we have ever had anything from him, except a few presents.
austen|Mr Elton is going to be married.
dickens|Every lean bare arm, that had been without work before, had this work always ready for it now, that it could strike.
dickens|At every vote the Jurymen voted aloud and individually, the populace set up a shout of applause.
austen|He had found the law a most unprofitable study, and was now absolutely resolved on being ordained, if I would present him to the living in questionof which he trusted there could be little doubt, as he was well assured that I had no other person to provide for, and I could not have forgotten my revered fathers intentions.
austen|I believe Mrs Westons letters lately have been full of very little else than Mrs Elton.
austen|No, sir, cried Emma, it confesses no such thing.
austen|His family knew him to be, on all common occasions, a most negligent and dilatory correspondent; but at such a time they had hoped for exertion.
dickens|I stammered something about the pleasure I felt in seeing her again, and about my having looked forward to it, for a long, long time.
dickens|If the danger had been fifty times as great, I should ha come to see you, mind you, just the same.
dickens|I must look in at Tellsons; so I will go there at once and come back presently.
austen|She was afraid she had done her nothing but disservice.
dickens|Youll drive me to the churchyard betwixt you, one of these days, and O, a prrrecious pair youd be without me!
dickens|he said, putting his arm on my shoulder, as he took his seat.
dickens|I cry in my sleep where is he?
dickens|How, then?
austen|You must get his consent before you ask mine.
austen|It was borne in the latter with decent philosophy.
austen|Seldom, very seldom, does complete truth belong to any human disclosure; seldom can it happen that something is not a little disguised, or a little mistaken; but where, as in this case, though the conduct is mistaken, the feelings are not, it may not be very material.
austen|On the misery of what she had suffered, during the concealment of so many months, continued Mrs Weston, she was energetic.
dickens|The judicious parent, having nothing to bestow or withhold but his blessing, had handsomely settled that dower upon them after a short struggle, and had informed Mr Pocket that his wife was a treasure for a Prince.
austen|In a few minutes she was joined by Bingley, whose conference with her father had been short and to the purpose.
dickens|Oh Lord!
dickens|The court was all bestrewn with herbs and sprinkled with vinegar, as a precaution against gaol air and gaol fever.
dickens|Come nearer; let me look at you.
dickens|Still, in the same moment, I saw the prisoner start up, lean across his captor, and pull the cloak from the neck of the shrinking sitter in the galley.
dickens|Believe me, Miss Pross, I dont approach the topic with you, out of curiosity, but out of zealous interest.
dickens|Positively.
dickens|In humoring my mistake, Miss Havisham, you punishedpractised onperhaps you will supply whatever term expresses your intention, without offenceyour selfseeking relations?
dickens|What I look at is the sacrifice of so much portable property.
austen|And as to its recommendations to you, I fancy I need not take much pains to dwell on them.
dickens|The king upon his throne, with his crown upon his ed, cant sit and write his acts of Parliament in print, without having begun, when he were a unpromoted Prince, with the alphabet.
austen|Nobody else would come so early.
austen|In spite of this amendment, however, she requested to have a note sent to Longbourn, desiring her mother to visit Jane, and form her own judgement of her situation.
dickens|shrieked the man, in wild desperation, extending both arms at their length above his head, and staring at him.
austen|Oh!
dickens|At that point, my convict became so frantically exasperated, that he would have rushed upon him but for the interposition of the soldiers.
austen|But as to your other objection, I am afraid it will hardly hold good.
dickens|The winking lights upon the bridges were already pale, the coming sun was like a marsh of fire on the horizon.
dickens|Mrs Joe, who always took explanations upon herself, said, snappishly, Escaped.
dickens|I know all, I know all, said the last comer.
dickens|Do you know what is become of Orlick?
austen|said Miss Bingley; will she be as tall as I am?
austen|The Mr Churchills were also in town; and they were only waiting for November.
austen|And as to laughter, we will not expose ourselves, if you please, by attempting to laugh without a subject.
dickens|Did he ever tell you he liked you?
austen|Very true, indeed; and now, my dear Jane, what have you got to say on behalf of the interested people who have probably been concerned in the business?
dickens|I said to you I thought he was softened when I last saw him.
dickens|As soon as he arrived in Paris he would present himself to this old friend, but he must say nothing of his intention now.
austen|Is Miss Darcy much grown since the spring?
dickens|Out of my thoughts!
austen|If I should ever go to Brighton, I would behave better than Lydia.
austen|The evening passed quietly, unmarked by anything extraordinary.
austen|If they are anxious to see you happily married, here is a man whose amiable character gives every assurance of it;if they wish to have you settled in the same country and circle which they have chosen to place you in, here it will be accomplished; and if their only object is that you should, in the common phrase, be well married, here is the comfortable fortune, the respectable establishment, the rise in the world which must satisfy them.
austen|I have very little to say for my own conduct.
dickens|After a little further conversation to the same effect, we returned into the Castle where we found Miss Skiffins preparing tea.
austen|It was horrible to Emma to think how it must sink him in the general opinion, to foresee the smiles, the sneers, the merriment it would prompt at his expense; the mortification and disdain of his brother, the thousand inconveniences to himself.
austen|Your surprise could not be greater than mine in being noticed by you.
dickens|He worked hardimpatientlyas if in some sense of having been interrupted.
dickens|But Joe wouldnt hear of that, at all, and again opened his mouth very wide, and shook the form of a most emphatic word out of it.
austen|Adopt her, educate her.
dickens|Your own, one day, my dear, and you will use it well.
austen|Weather becomes absolutely of no consequence.
dickens|On the night of the day on which he left the house, Mr Lorry went into his room with a chopper, saw, chisel, and hammer, attended by Miss Pross carrying a light.
dickens|The George was in other hands at that time, sir.
dickens|Tell me in my ear, said Miss Havisham, bending down.
dickens|We have known their husbands and fathers laid in prison and kept from them, often enough?
dickens|cried the smith.
dickens|Ah!
austen|At one time she had almost resolved on applying to him, but the idea was checked by the awkwardness of the application, and at length wholly banished by the conviction that Mr Darcy would never have hazarded such a proposal, if he had not been well assured of his cousins corroboration.
dickens|I said I could not deny that this was a strong point.
dickens|No; but before I go on, said Stryver, shaking his head in his bullying way, Ill have this out with you.
austen|Mr Collins was employed in agreeing to everything her ladyship said, thanking her for every fish he won, and apologising if he thought he won too many.
austen|there is one difficulty unprovided for, cried Emma.
dickens|I know you, Evremonde; I saw you before the Tribunal today.
austen|Come, my dear Emma, let us be friends, and say no more about it.
dickens|So, Mr Lorry!
dickens|The mournfulness of the place and time, and the great terror of this illusion, though it was but momentary, caused me to feel an indescribable awe as I came out between the open wooden gates where I had once wrung my hair after Estella had wrung my heart.
dickens|I lay down with the greater part of my clothes on, and slept well for a few hours.
austen|Mr Woodhouse taken from Hartfield!
dickens|We all know you, Citizen Doctor, said the other three.
austen|They parted thorough friends, however; she could not be deceived as to the meaning of his countenance, and his unfinished gallantry;it was all done to assure her that she had fully recovered his good opinion.
austen|I know he had horses todayfor we arrived together; and I laughed at him about it, but he said not a word that could betray.
dickens|Good.
dickens|It was pleasant to observe that Mrs Wemmick no longer unwound Wemmicks arm when it adapted itself to her figure, but sat in a highbacked chair against the wall, like a violoncello in its case, and submitted to be embraced as that melodious instrument might have done.
dickens|He spoke with the diffidence of a man who knew how slight a thing would overset the delicate organisation of the mind, and yet with the confidence of a man who had slowly won his assurance out of personal endurance and distress.
dickens|Every living creature there held life as of no account, and was demented with a passionate readiness to sacrifice it.
dickens|And the oncommonest workman cant show himself oncommon in a gridiron,for a gridiron IS a gridiron, said Joe, steadfastly impressing it upon me, as if he were endeavouring to rouse me from a fixed delusion, and you may haim at what you like, but a gridiron it will come out, either by your leave or again your leave, and you cant help yourself  My dear Joe, I cried, in desperation, taking hold of his coat, dont go on in that way.
austen|It had been a very happy fortnight, and forlorn must be the sinking from it into the common course of Hartfield days.
dickens|said the man who had caused Miss Pross to scream; speaking in a vexed, abrupt voice though in a low tone, and in English.
dickens|In these discussions, Joe bore no part.
austen|I mean, that no man in his senses would marry Lydia on so slight a temptation as one hundred a year during my life, and fifty after I am gone.
dickens|Before I had been standing at the window five minutes, they somehow conveyed to me that they were all toadies and humbugs, but that each of them pretended not to know that the others were toadies and humbugs because the admission that he or she did know it, would have made him or her out to be a toady and humbug.
austen|
austen|Perhaps to Hartfield, perhaps to the Abbey Mill, perhaps into his woods.
austen|I did not see you before.
dickens|would be the time for me to rise and propose a private conference in the vestry.
austen|How completely it meant, why should my picture be drawn?
austen|Has it not been industriously circulated by yourselves?
austen|Something has happened in Brunswick Square.
dickens|Goodbye!
dickens|Good day!
dickens|It was an unhappy life that I lived; and its one dominant anxiety, towering over all its other anxieties, like a high mountain above a range of mountains, never disappeared from my view.
austen|Mr Collins repeated his apologies in quitting the room, and was assured with unwearying civility that they were perfectly needless.
dickens|I want to know no more than I know.
dickens|Republic One and Indivisible.
austen|They must be a great loss to your family.
dickens|he went on, taking my watch out of my pocket, and turning towards him a ring on my finger, while I recoiled from his touch as if he had been a snake, a gold un and a beauty thats a gentlemans, I hope!
dickens|I dont know.
dickens|I remember that at a later period of my time, I used to stand about the churchyard on Sunday evenings when night was falling, comparing my own perspective with the windy marsh view, and making out some likeness between them by thinking how flat and low both were, and how on both there came an unknown way and a dark mist and then the sea.
dickens|Those attractions in it, I had seen before; what I had never seen before, was the saddened, softened light of the once proud eyes; what I had never felt before was the friendly touch of the once insensible hand.
dickens|When I had got into bed, and lay there footsore, weary, and wretched, I found that I could no more close my own eyes than I could close the eyes of this foolish Argus.
dickens|It is best, he said, finally resolved, that these people should know there is such a man as I here.
austen|Has your governess left you?
austen|, as it would have been impossible for any woman of sense to endure, she spoke her resentment in a form of words perfectly intelligible to me.
dickens|said Mr Lorry, as an amendment.
austen|Wickham will never marry a woman without some money.
austen|It will be safer to say No, perhaps.
dickens|You might, old chap, said Joe.
dickens|She had employed herself in both ways, at his side under the tree, many and many a time; but, this time was not quite like any other, and nothing could make it so.
austen|No description can describe her.
austen|We are growing a little too nice.
austen|Mr Collins, however, was not discouraged from speaking again, and Mr Darcys contempt seemed abundantly increasing with the length of his second speech, and at the end of it he only made him a slight bow, and moved another way.
dickens|Against.
austen|They walked, I conclude.
dickens|A very few French leagues of his journey were accomplished, when Charles Darnay began to perceive that for him along these country roads there was no hope of return until he should have been declared a good citizen at Paris.
austen|Perfectly, perfectly right, my dearest Harriet; you are doing just what you ought.
austen|Now is your time.
austen|Oh!
austen|Poor little dears, how glad they will be to come.
austen|I have no right to give my opinion, said Wickham, as to his being agreeable or otherwise.
austen|Mr Darcy corroborated it with a bow, and was beginning to determine not to fix his eyes on Elizabeth, when they were suddenly arrested by the sight of the stranger, and Elizabeth happening to see the countenance of both as they looked at each other, was all astonishment at the effect of the meeting.
austen|He was well, but so much engaged with Mr Darcy that they scarcely ever saw him.
dickens|Where do you expect to go to?
austen|Such I was, from eight to eight and twenty; and such I might still have been but for you, dearest, loveliest Elizabeth!
dickens|yes!
dickens|Yes, Estella.
austen|Her goodnature, too, is not so very slight a claim, comprehending, as it does, real, thorough sweetness of temper and manner, a very humble opinion of herself, and a great readiness to be pleased with other people.
austen|Jane had already written a few lines to her sister to announce their safe arrival in London; and when she wrote again, Elizabeth hoped it would be in her power to say something of the Bingleys.
dickens|Dont ask me why I make the stipulations I am going to make, and exact the promise I am going to exact; I have a reasona good one.
dickens|But who else was there?
austen|At last Jane began, and though the first bars were feebly given, the powers of the instrument were gradually done full justice to.
dickens|The air of completeness and superiority with which she walked at my side, and the air of youthfulness and submission with which I walked at hers, made a contrast that I strongly felt.
dickens|You address nothing in my breast, you touch nothing there.
austen|Their lodgings were not long a secret, and at length they began to know the officers themselves.
dickens|How can the women and the children draw water!
dickens|I giv it her!
austen|And as for objects of interest, objects for the affections, which is in truth the great point of inferiority, the want of which is really the great evil to be avoided in not marrying, I shall be very well off, with all the children of a sister I love so much, to care about.
austen|She thinks herself wrong, then, for having consented to a private engagement?
dickens|There was the usual stoppage at the barrier guardhouse, and the usual lanterns came glancing forth for the usual examination and inquiry.
dickens|Crash!
austen|She must see you.
dickens|This is a pretty pleasureground, sir.
dickens|Antoine.
dickens|Your unselfishness cannot entirely comprehend how much my mind has gone on this; but, only ask yourself, how could my happiness be perfect, while yours was incomplete?
austen|She hesitated a moment, and then replied, With you, if you will ask me.
austen|You quite mistook Mr Darcy.
austen|While I, to blind the world to our engagement, was behaving one hour with objectionable particularity to another woman, was she to be consenting the next to a proposal which might have made every previous caution useless?
dickens|He hoped that with intelligent assistance I should meet with little to discourage me, and should soon be able to dispense with any aid but his.
dickens|I saw that, and said so.
dickens|Jacques One struck in, and asked if he had ever seen the man before?
dickens|Royalty was gone; had been besieged in its Palace and suspended, when the last tidings came over.
dickens|Three tumbrils faring away with their dread loads over the hushing snow.
dickens|And you have observed, my wife, said Defarge, in a deprecatory manner, the anguish of his daughter, which must be a dreadful anguish to him!
dickens|O Heavens, it had come at last!
austen|Poor Mr and Miss Woodhouse, if you please; but I cannot possibly say poor Miss Taylor.
dickens|She had adopted Estella, she had as good as adopted me, and it could not fail to be her intention to bring us together.
austen|but they always dealt at Fordswho should come in, but Elizabeth Martin and her brother!
dickens|And then they both stared at me, and I, with an obtrusive show of artlessness on my countenance, stared at them, and plaited the right leg of my trousers with my right hand.
austen|He saw Wickham, and afterwards insisted on seeing Lydia.
austen|Oh!
dickens|No, said I, I had quite enough of the Finches the last time I was there.
austen|If I had ever learnt, I should have been a great proficient.
dickens|I am not going to guess, at five oclock in the morning, with my brains frying and sputtering in my head.
dickens|Mr Carton, she answered, after an agitated pause, the secret is yours, not mine; and I promise to respect it.
dickens|Did I say that?
dickens|In a few minutes she had ascended out of that clear field, in among the piled mountains of cloud.
dickens|As a whirlpool of boiling waters has a centre point, so, all this raging circled round Defarges wineshop, and every human drop in the caldron had a tendency to be sucked towards the vortex where Defarge himself, already begrimed with gunpowder and sweat, issued orders, issued arms, thrust this man back, dragged this man forward, disarmed one to arm another, laboured and strove in the thickest of the uproar.
austen|You might not have distinguished how I came, by my look or manner.
austen|She burst into tears as she alluded to it, and for a few minutes could not speak another word.
dickens|I have looked at her, in a state so dull and lethargic, that I have thought of nothing but the number of horizontal lines I could draw across her at the full, and the number of perpendicular lines with which I could intersect them.
dickens|Whatll he do with it?
dickens|I think it is well.
dickens|Can you take me?
dickens|It revived my utmost indignation to find that she was still pursued by this fellow, and I felt inveterate against him.
dickens|The placid look at the white ceiling came back, and passed away, and his head dropped quietly on his breast.
dickens|Accordingly, when Mr Lorry called that night as late as ten oclock, Mr Stryver, among a quantity of books and papers littered out for the purpose, seemed to have nothing less on his mind than the subject of the morning.
dickens|Not at all.
dickens|said Madame Defarge.
dickens|The sunset struck so brilliantly into the travelling carriage when it gained the hilltop, that its occupant was steeped in crimson.
dickens|That is his employer, gentlemen.
austen|Those were the words; in them lay the tormenting ideas which Emma could not get rid of, and which constituted the real misery of the business to her.
dickens|You are a good man and a true friend, said Carton, in an altered voice.
dickens|No.
dickens|he pursued, as we walked along.
austen|He had rather hoped that his wifes views on the stranger would be disappointed; but he soon found out that he had a different story to hear.
dickens|demanded Wemmick, with the utmost indignation.
austen|You go to Brighton.
austen|You had better order the carriage directly, my love, said she; I dare say we shall be able to get along, if we set off directly; and if we do come to any thing very bad, I can get out and walk.
dickens|I know this messenger, guard, said Mr Lorry, getting down into the roadassisted from behind more swiftly than politely by the other two passengers, who immediately scrambled into the coach, shut the door, and pulled up the window.
dickens|You work hard, madame, said a man near her.
austen|She was not sorry, however, to have the recital of them interrupted by the lady from whom they sprang.
austen|Good gracious!
dickens|Leave this lad to me, maam; leave this lad to me.
dickens|Then there was firing!
austen|Her person was rather good; her face not unpretty; but neither feature, nor air, nor voice, nor manner, were elegant.
austen|He paused.
austen|She remembered what Mr Knightley had once said to her about Mr Elton, the caution he had given, the conviction he had professed that Mr Elton would never marry indiscreetly; and blushed to think how much truer a knowledge of his character had been there shewn than any she had reached herself.
dickens|He was to come away in an hour or two to attend me to Hammersmith, and I was to wait about for him.
dickens|Then, Herbert, estimate; estimate it in round numbers, and put it down.
austen|She calls you, Knightleywhat can she do for Mr Cole?
austen|But I could not reason so to a man in love, and was willing to trust to there being no harm in her, to her having that sort of disposition, which, in good hands, like his, might be easily led aright and turn out very well.
austen|She dreaded lest the chambermaid had been mistaken.
dickens|Whatever my fortunes might have been, I could scarcely have recalled my sister with much tenderness.
austen|When first he came in, he had spoken to her but little; but every five minutes seemed to be giving her more of his attention.
austen|From Monday next to Saturday, I assure you we have not a disengaged day!
dickens|We received the news of their safe arrival, and perhaps another letter, or perhaps two; but, since then, they have gradually taken their road in lifewe, oursand we have held no correspondence.
austen|And poor Mr Darcy!
dickens|Four lights broke out there, and moved away in different directions, and all was black again.
austen|So seldom that any negligence or blunder appears!
austen|Time passed on.
dickens|Oh!
austen|Poor Jane Fairfax!
dickens|The faintness of the voice was pitiable and dreadful.
dickens|she cried, all at once.
dickens|He replied that it would give him much pleasure, and that he would expect me at the office at six oclock.
dickens|Do you, dear boy?
dickens|In good time they too started up strong and well, and we admitted the sharp morning air at the windows, and looked at the tide that was still flowing towards us.
austen|They are generally long; but whether always charming it is not for me to determine.
dickens|Only one thing more, said Mr Lorry, laying stress upon it as a wholesome means of enforcing her attention he has been found under another name; his own, long forgotten or long concealed.
austen|Perhaps you mean what I overheard between him and Mr Robinson; did not I mention it to you?
austen|But I am at his disposal.
dickens|You seem to breathe quickly.
dickens|Pardon me; certainly it was I who said so, but you naturally think so.
dickens|Of course I saw that he knew the man was come.
dickens|She was seated on the ground, with her arms on the ragged chair, and her head leaning on them.
austen|I should be sorry indeed, if it were.
austen|It was no wonder that a train of twenty young couple now walked after her to church.
dickens|What do I touch?
dickens|Times up, said Wemmick, and I must be off.
austen|Every thing so good!
austen|But how shall I do?
austen|She did at last extort from her father an acknowledgment that the horses were engaged.
dickens|And he turned his face towards Saint Antoine.
dickens|I am sure I wish it could be so.
austen|I wish I could conjecture how soon I shall make this rivet quite firm.
austen|Oh yes; next week.
dickens|Dont let anything happen to the portable property.
dickens|Therese!
austen|These amazing engagements of minewhat have they been?
austen|It was some days, however, before they received any invitation thitherfor while there were visitors in the house, they could not be necessary; and it was not till Easterday, almost a week after the gentlemens arrival, that they were honoured by such an attention, and then they were merely asked on leaving church to come there in the evening.
dickens|Possibly you have heard of me.
dickens|The time was to come, when that wine too would be spilled on the streetstones, and when the stain of it would be red upon many there.
austen|she is sadly taken away from us all!
dickens|For scores of years gone by, Monseigneur had squeezed it and wrung it, and had seldom graced it with his presence except for the pleasures of the chasenow, found in hunting the people; now, found in hunting the beasts, for whose preservation Monseigneur made edifying spaces of barbarous and barren wilderness.
dickens|Do you, by Jupiter?
austen|It cannot last long.
austen|Elegant, agreeable manners, I was prepared for, said he; but I confess that, considering every thing, I had not expected more than a very tolerably welllooking woman of a certain age; I did not know that I was to find a pretty young woman in Mrs Weston.
dickens|I wish you had a better employed brother than Mr Barsad.
dickens|I come direct.
austen|Where there is fortune to make the expenses of travelling unimportant, distance becomes no evil.
austen|A fortnights acquaintance is certainly very little.
dickens|I see the blots I threw upon it, faded away.
austen|He had gone to learn to be indifferent.
dickens|Of a strong and fearless character, of shrewd sense and readiness, of great determination, of that kind of beauty which not only seems to impart to its possessor firmness and animosity, but to strike into others an instinctive recognition of those qualities; the troubled time would have heaved her up, under any circumstances.
dickens|In a similar way I am, or I have been, trustee of one kind or other for scores of our customers.
dickens|He may cringe and growl, or cringe and not growl; but he either beats or cringes.
dickens|Mr Wopsles greataunt, besides keeping this Educational Institution, kept in the same rooma little general shop.
dickens|The man stopped eating, and regarded me with the keenest scrutiny and the greatest surprise.
austen|My blindness to what was going on, led me to act by them in a way that I must always be ashamed of, and I was very foolishly tempted to say and do many things which may well lay me open to unpleasant conjectures, but I have no other reason to regret that I was not in the secret earlier.
dickens|I seek him.
austen|My dear, dear anxious friend,said she, in mental soliloquy, while walking downstairs from her own room, always overcareful for every bodys comfort but your own; I see you now in all your little fidgets, going again and again into his room, to be sure that all is right.
dickens|Therefore I glanced at him as we walked on together, but said nothing.
dickens|Perhaps, returned my friend, but theres no knowing.
austen|She could not help frequently glancing her eye at Mr Darcy, though every glance convinced her of what she dreaded; for though he was not always looking at her mother, she was convinced that his attention was invariably fixed by her.
dickens|Word of honour!
austen|You must write again very soon, and praise him a great deal more than you did in your last.
dickens|I escaped to the shore, and I was a hiding among the graves there, envying them as was in em and all over, when I first see my boy!
austen|A little quickness of voice there is which rather hurts the ear.
austen|I have observed, Mrs Elton, in the course of my life, that if things are going untowardly one month, they are sure to mend the next.
dickens|I took what Joe gave me, and found it to be the crumpled playbill of a small metropolitan theatre, announcing the first appearance, in that very week, of the celebrated Provincial Amateur of Roscian renown, whose unique performance in the highest tragic walk of our National Bard has lately occasioned so great a sensation in local dramatic circles.
dickens|Give me the worst first.
dickens|It is madness.
dickens|I think you were sent to me by Heaven.
dickens|No one was near me when I went in and went home.
dickens|They were both silent.
austen|Let me not suppose that she dares go about, Emma Woodhouseing me!
austen|There is an openness, a quickness, almost a bluntness in Mr Weston, which every body likes in him, because there is so much goodhumour with itbut that would not do to be copied.
dickens|I made it in a moment.
dickens|Really your business powers are very remarkable.
austen|If I could be sure of the rooms being thoroughly airedbut is Mrs Stokes to be trusted?
austen|It was through a series of strange blunders!
dickens|He was tried again for prison breaking, and got made a Lifer.
dickens|I hope Uncle Pumblechooks mare maynt have set a forefoot on a piece o ice, and gone down.
austen|To this discovery succeeded some others equally mortifying.
austen|Her attention was now claimed by Mr Woodhouse, who being, according to his custom on such occasions, making the circle of his guests, and paying his particular compliments to the ladies, was ending with herand with all his mildest urbanity, said,  I am very sorry to hear, Miss Fairfax, of your being out this morning in the rain.
austen|I hope I have a better taste than to think of Mr Frank Churchill, who is like nobody by his side.
dickens|I inquired.
dickens|I soon contracted expensive habits, and began to spend an amount of money that within a few short months I should have thought almost fabulous; but through good and evil I stuck to my books.
austen|It is a delightful thing, to be sure, to have a daughter well married,  continued her mother, but at the same time, Mr Bingley, it is very hard to have her taken such a way from me.
dickens|He stooped a little, and with his tattered blue cap pointed under the carriage.
austen|I never read one more to the purpose, certainly.
austen|About the middle of the next day, as she was in her room getting ready for a walk, a sudden noise below seemed to speak the whole house in confusion; and, after listening a moment, she heard somebody running up stairs in a violent hurry, and calling loudly after her.
dickens|It is Jarvis Lorry who has alighted and stands with his hand on the coach door, replying to a group of officials.
dickens|Are they both yours to renounce?
austen|The first mentioned was, that, regardless of the sentiments of either, I had detached Mr Bingley from your sister, and the other, that I had, in defiance of various claims, in defiance of honour and humanity, ruined the immediate prosperity and blasted the prospects of Mr Wickham.
austen|And he had spoken in such terms of Elizabeth as to leave Georgiana without the power of finding her otherwise than lovely and amiable.
dickens|It is best that these people should know there is such a man as I here; it is a sound precaution, and may be a necessary preparation.
austen|I have no motive for wishing him illand for her sake, whose happiness will be involved in his good character and conduct, I shall certainly wish him well.
dickens|Ware Compeyson, Magwitch, and the gallows!
dickens|So I said I would go into the outer office and talk to Wemmick.
dickens|There was a time in my imprisonment, when my desire for vengeance was unbearable.
dickens|As we got more and more into debt, breakfast became a hollower and hollower form, and, being on one occasion at breakfasttime threatened by letter with legal proceedings, not unwholly unconnected, as my local paper might put it, with jewelery,  I went so far as to seize the Avenger by his blue collar and shake him off his feet,so that he was actually in the air, like a booted Cupid,for presuming to suppose that we wanted a roll.
dickens|Turning into Cheapside and rattling up Newgate Street, we were soon under the walls of which I was so ashamed.
dickens|I suppose it will be difficult for you to remain here now, Biddy dear?
austen|She has no money, no connections, nothing that can tempt him toshe is lost for ever.
dickens|Either of us might be accused of it, you know.
dickens|Nothing was ever discovered, Biddy?
dickens|His mouth was such a postoffice of a mouth that he had a mechanical appearance of smiling.
austen|no, I dare say you do not.
dickens|On this particular evening the urgency of my case demanded a pint of this mixture, which was poured down my throat, for my greater comfort, while Mrs Joe held my head under her arm, as a boot would be held in a bootjack.
dickens|Here were the Leith, Aberdeen, and Glasgow steamers, loading and unloading goods, and looking immensely high out of the water as we passed alongside; here, were colliers by the score and score, with the coalwhippers plunging off stages on deck, as counterweights to measures of coal swinging up, which were then rattled over the side into barges; here, at her moorings was tomorrows steamer for Rotterdam, of which we took good notice; and here tomorrows for Hamburg, under whose bowsprit we crossed.
dickens|Quick!
austen|I think him a very handsome young man, and his manners are precisely what I like and approveso truly the gentleman, without the least conceit or puppyism.
dickens|Tho Im uncommon fond of reading, too.
dickens|He had been out early with the chaisecart, and had called at the forge and heard the news.
dickens|Apparently the CitizenDoctor is not in his right mind?
dickens|Good day, Pip!
austen|That is court.
dickens|But my father were that good in his hart that he couldnt abear to be without us.
austen|Yours, etc.
dickens|said Joe, staring at me.
dickens|It was abandoned as soon as tried, and he wore his grizzled hair cut short.
austen|You certainly will meet them if I can prevail; and I shall call on Miss Bates in my way home.
dickens|To top up with?
austen|My uncle has been too good for me to encroach.
austen|The introduction was followed up on his side by a happy readiness of conversationa readiness at the same time perfectly correct and unassuming; and the whole party were still standing and talking together very agreeably, when the sound of horses drew their notice, and Darcy and Bingley were seen riding down the street.
austen|Upon this signal, the youngest of her daughters put herself forward.
dickens|And you in brown!
austen|Her mother had died too long ago for her to have more than an indistinct remembrance of her caresses; and her place had been supplied by an excellent woman as governess, who had fallen little short of a mother in affection.
austen|You were both talking of other things; of business, shows of cattle, or new drillsand might not you, in the confusion of so many subjects, mistake him?
dickens|Not to mention your calling me Mr Pip,which appears to me to be in bad taste, Biddy,what do you mean?
austen|She was a little occupied in weighing her own feelings, and trying to understand the degree of her agitation, which she rather thought was considerable.
austen|And is he to be rewarded with that sweet young woman?
dickens|He answered with one other nod.
austen|Emma must do Harriet good and by supplying her with a new object of interest, Harriet may be said to do Emma good.
austen|If he no longer cares for me, why silent?
austen|The impression of it is strong on my memory.
dickens|But she did not; on the contrary, she seemed to prefer my being ignorant.
dickens|O show me the place, my father, and I will go there every day.
dickens|Is that all, sir?
austen|You do not mean it?
dickens|You have had your bottle, I perceive, Sydney.
dickens|I must bear it, if you let it in.
austen|Mary and Kitty, thank Heaven, are quite well.
austen|Aye, we men are sad fellows.
dickens|I said he might, and he shook hands with me again, and emptied his glass and turned it upside down.
austen|Mrs Bates was engaged to spend the evening at Hartfield, James had due notice, and he sanguinely hoped that neither dear little Henry nor dear little John would have any thing the matter with them, while dear Emma were gone.
dickens|Some halfdozen times a year, at most, he claimed his privilege of coming in uninvited, and would sit among them through the evening, as he had once done often.
austen|dearI think you play the best of the two.
dickens|Yes.
austen|He beganstopping, however, almost directly to say, Had I been offered the sight of one of this gentlemans letters to his motherinlaw a few months ago, Emma, it would not have been taken with such indifference.
dickens|Now, the Hulks has got its gentleman again, through me.
dickens|I hope so.
austen|And when I returned home, the shire was to leave Meryton in a week or fortnights time.
dickens|What have you done, what have you done, that you should kneel to us!
austen|Only think of those sweet versesTo Miss .
austen|But, whatever may be their own wishes, it is very unlikely they should have opposed their brothers.
austen|It must be his own doing.
austen|I was very often influenced rightly by youoftener than I would own at the time.
dickens|Jarvis Lorry.
dickens|Which I entreated you to believe, again and again, most fervently, with all my heart, was capable of better things, Mr Carton!
dickens|asked Biddy, with a steady sort of glance.
austen|She had always seen it with pain; but respecting his abilities, and grateful for his affectionate treatment of herself, she endeavoured to forget what she could not overlook, and to banish from her thoughts that continual breach of conjugal obligation and decorum which, in exposing his wife to the contempt of her own children, was so highly reprehensible.
austen|She has talked of it since.
austen|I was told that not only your sister was on the point of being most advantageously married, but that you, that Miss Elizabeth Bennet, would, in all likelihood, be soon afterwards united to my nephew, my own nephew, Mr Darcy.
austen|Let me entreat you, cried Mr Elton; it would indeed be a delight!
dickens|Do you suppose it will still be years hence, Mr Jaggers?
austen|Your portion is unhappily so small that it will in all likelihood undo the effects of your loveliness and amiable qualifications.
austen|The insipidity, and yet the noisethe nothingness, and yet the selfimportance of all those people!
dickens|Let him go free?
dickens|The more I think of him, the more certain I am of him.
austen|She then took a longer time for consideration.
austen|I will send you some more, before they get good for nothing.
dickens|Apparently, Mr Cruncher did, to judge from his looks.
dickens|Not to divide with Lucie her privilege as your child, companion, and friend; but to come in aid of it, and bind her closer to you, if such a thing can be.
austen|Certainly his being at Randalls had given great spirit to the last two weeksindescribable spirit; the idea, the expectation of seeing him which every morning had brought, the assurance of his attentions, his liveliness, his manners!
austen|Then you would drink a great deal more than you ought, said Mrs Bennet; and if I were to see you at it, I should take away your bottle directly.
austen|If we thought alike of Miss Bingley, replied Jane, your representation of all this might make me quite easy.
austen|It did, however.
dickens|Still, the Hundreds of people did not present themselves.
dickens|There was no gainsaying this difficulty, and we relinquished all thoughts of pursuing Orlick at that time.
austen|After these came a second set; among the most comeatable of whom were Mrs and Miss Bates, and Mrs Goddard, three ladies almost always at the service of an invitation from Hartfield, and who were fetched and carried home so often, that Mr Woodhouse thought it no hardship for either James or the horses.
austen|And though he exclaimed at the term, she found that it had been pretty much the case.
austen|She and Mr Frank Churchill had been at Weymouth at the same time.
austen|Threeandtwenty!
austen|Yes, said Mr John Knightley presently, with some slyness, he seems to have a great deal of goodwill towards you.
dickens|He had fully comprehended that no personal influence could possibly save him, that he was virtually sentenced by the millions, and that units could avail him nothing.
dickens|More than that, he seems to me I may misjudge him to be a man of a desperate and fierce character.
austen|You are acquainted with Miss Jane Fairfax, sir, are you?
austen|The horror of being blocked up at Randalls, while her children were at Hartfield, was full in her imagination; and fancying the road to be now just passable for adventurous people, but in a state that admitted no delay, she was eager to have it settled, that her father and Emma should remain at Randalls, while she and her husband set forward instantly through all the possible accumulations of drifted snow that might impede them.
austen|She had suffered very much from cramp after dancing, and her first attempt to mount the bank brought on such a return of it as made her absolutely powerlessand in this state, and exceedingly terrified, she had been obliged to remain.
dickens|His getting on his box, which I remember to have been decorated with an old weatherstained peagreen hammercloth motheaten into rags, was quite a work of time.
austen|I dare say they must have been very much obliged to you for coming.
dickens|said my sister, in her snappish way.
dickens|I saw that you saw me.
dickens|Of that group I was one.
dickens|But, before she could repeat the question, he murmured an answer as if she had repeated it.
dickens|What is it?
dickens|But I had quite determined that it would be a heartless fraud to take more money from my patron in the existing state of my uncertain thoughts and plans.
austen|That is all very proper and civil, I am sure, said Mrs Bennet, and I dare say she is a very agreeable woman.
dickens|She was in a front row, by the side of a man whom he had never seen since his arrival at the Barrier, but whom he directly remembered as Defarge.
austen|Mrs Elton is very goodnatured and agreeable, and I dare say her acquaintance are just what they ought to be.
austen|Do not you remember his cutting his finger with your new penknife, and your recommending courtplaister?
dickens|Thats right; all safe and well!
dickens|Ah!
dickens|Come to the ground, and go through the preliminaries!
dickens|Eh, Mr Wopsle?
dickens|Now, a child.
austen|There was a languor, a want of spirits, a want of union, which could not be got over.
austen|He was fourandtwenty the 8th of last June, and my birthday is the 23rd just a fortnight and a days differencewhich is very odd.
dickens|She could not get over my appearance, and was in the last degree confounded.
dickens|Come!
dickens|As she looked at me in giving me the purse, I hoped there was an inner meaning in her words.
dickens|There was a clear space of a few feet between the table and the opposite wall.
dickens|I had to get into the front rank; I was not born there, was I?
austen|I do not consider its length as particularly in its favour.
austen|I think your manners to him encouraging.
dickens|Yet once more!
dickens|But he now reclined on his settle, taking very little notice of me, and talking principally about turnips.
dickens|Who wants me?
austen|She was just as determined when the morrow came, and went early, that nothing might prevent her.
dickens|said Biddy.
austen|Was not it astonishingly like?
dickens|Shall I see something very uncommon?
austen|Sir William and Lady Lucas are determined to go, merely on that account, for in general, you know, they visit no newcomers.
dickens|They had taken me into the kitchen, and I had laid my head down on the old deal table.
austen|Then here is my last,unclosing a pretty sketch of a gentleman in small size, wholelengthmy last and my bestmy brother, Mr John Knightley.
dickens|You mean the Guillotine.
dickens|Sit where I can see you when I am swore to, for the last o many times, and I dont ask no more.
austen|There was certainly at this moment, in Elizabeths mind, a more gentle sensation towards the original than she had ever felt at the height of their acquaintance.
dickens|Yet, human fellowship infused some nourishment into the flinty viands, and struck some sparks of cheerfulness out of them.
dickens|From this last speech I derived the notion that Miss Havisham, for some reason or no reason, had not taken him into her confidence as to her designing me for Estella; that he resented this, and felt a jealousy about it; or that he really did object to that scheme, and would have nothing to do with it.
dickens|Then, Herbert, I would respond, let us look into our affairs.
dickens|Youre oncommon small.
dickens|But supposing you did?
dickens|I mark this cross of blood upon him, as a sign that I do it.
austen|His lady greeted him with some of her sparkling vivacity.
dickens|At once, I think.
austen|And she is a goodnatured woman after all.
dickens|Both flourishing thankye, said Wemmick, and particularly the Aged.
dickens|A rose lay beside her, and if she now and then glanced at the flower, it was with no infraction of her usual preoccupied air.
austen|It was a very useful note, for it supplied them with fresh matter for thought and conversation during the rest of their lonely evening.
austen|Mrs Bennet was not in the habit of walking; Mary could never spare time; but the remaining five set off together.
dickens|I had heard them, alone at the bedside, striking their boots with their ridingwhips, and loitering up and down.
austen|I hope sofor at that time I was a fool.
dickens|I nodded hard.
austen|But it would not do.
dickens|I could not help wishing more than once that evening, that Mr Jaggers had had an Aged in Gerrard Street, or a Stinger, or a Something, or a Somebody, to unbend his brows a little.
austen|She stared, coloured, doubted, and was silent.
dickens|There was no fish for breakfast, and not much of anything else.
dickens|My father!
dickens|I fully believe it.
austen|And, moreover, if you must go to the sea, it had better not have been to South End.
dickens|And did you take milk?
austen|The acquaintance at present had no charm for her.
austen|Wickham indeed had gone to her on their first arrival in London, and had she been able to receive them into her house, they would have taken up their abode with her.
dickens|Is it being a good wife to oppose your husbands business?
dickens|Well, said Wemmick, youll see a wild beast tamed.
dickens|What is to become of us, if those shoes are not done tonight?
austen|Harriet repeated expressions of approbation and praise from himand Emma felt them to be in the closest agreement with what she had known of his opinion of Harriet.
dickens|Forbid it as we shouldnt all flop if it was anyways conwenient to get em out o this here dismal risk!
dickens|Defarge took his receipt without noticing the exclamation, and withdrew, with his two fellowpatriots.
dickens|Five more days, and then the day before the day!
austen|In comparing her recollection of Pemberley with the minute description which Wickham could give, and in bestowing her tribute of praise on the character of its late possessor, she was delighting both him and herself.
dickens|Yes.
austen|He had hoped she would speak again, but she did not.
austen|To Emmas entreaties and assurances succeeded Mr Knightleys, whose fond praise of her gave the subject even a kind of welcome; and he was soon used to be talked to by each, on every fair occasion.
austen|The garden in which stands my humble abode is separated only by a lane from Rosings Park, her ladyships residence.
austen|But Emma still shook her head in steady scepticism.
austen|My youngest of all is lately married, and my eldest is somewhere about the grounds, walking with a young man who, I believe, will soon become a part of the family.
austen|There is one point on which I want your advice.
dickens|Youll want some money.
austen|The corner of the sofa is very good.
dickens|The slight devices with which she cheated herself into the show of a belief that they would soon be reunitedthe little preparations for his speedy return, the setting aside of his chair and his booksthese, and the solemn prayer at night for one dear prisoner especially, among the many unhappy souls in prison and the shadow of deathwere almost the only outspoken reliefs of her heavy mind.
dickens|Therefore I resolved to put my hunk of bread and butter down the leg of my trousers.
austen|We cannot suppose that she has any great enjoyment at the Vicarage, my dear Emmabut it is better than being always at home.
austen|Jane resolutely kept her place at the table; but Elizabeth, to satisfy her mother, went to the windowshe looked,she saw Mr Darcy with him, and sat down again by her sister.
dickens|Close them again.
dickens|Indeed, except for the mere act of bringing a troublesome creature into this worldwhich does not go far towards the realisation of the name of motherthere was no such thing known to the fashion.
austen|Mrs Churchill will not be second to any lady in the land for  Mrs Elton eagerly interposed with,  Oh!
dickens|And theres another rum thing in his house, proceeded Wemmick, after a moments pause, as if the remark followed on the housekeeper understood; he never lets a door or window be fastened at night.
austen|Her mothers ungraciousness, made the sense of what they owed him more painful to Elizabeths mind; and she would, at times, have given anything to be privileged to tell him that his kindness was neither unknown nor unfelt by the whole of the family.
austen|His brotherinlaw, Mr Hurst, merely looked the gentleman; but his friend Mr Darcy soon drew the attention of the room by his fine, tall person, handsome features, noble mien, and the report which was in general circulation within five minutes after his entrance, of his having ten thousand a year.
dickens|That is all I know.
dickens|Old Bailey Spiiies!
dickens|They both looked to the right and to the left into most of the shops they passed, had a wary eye for all gregarious assemblages of people, and turned out of their road to avoid any very excited group of talkers.
austen|She had some fears of his horse.
dickens|So, when I had pledged myself to comfort and abet Herbert in the affair of his heart by all practicable and impracticable means, and when Herbert had told me that his affianced already knew me by reputation and that I should be presented to her, and when we had warmly shaken hands upon our mutual confidence, we blew out our candles, made up our fire, locked our door, and issued forth in quest of Mr Wopsle and Denmark.
austen|Something, he supposed, might be attributed to his connection with them, but yet he had never met with so much attention in the whole course of his life.
dickens|Thats a real flagstaff, you see, said Wemmick, and on Sundays I run up a real flag.
dickens|That, as they were not so decreed, he probably would not have one.
dickens|And how I sped in it is all I have left to tell.
dickens|Jerry had just enough forehead to knuckle, and he knuckled it in acknowledgment of this communication and a shilling.
dickens|While one external cause, and that a reference to his long lingering agony, would alwaysas on the trialevoke this condition from the depths of his soul, it was also in its nature to arise of itself, and to draw a gloom over him, as incomprehensible to those unacquainted with his story as if they had seen the shadow of the actual Bastille thrown upon him by a summer sun, when the substance was three hundred miles away.
dickens|These are again the words of Jarvis Lorry, as he clasps his hands, and looks upward.
austen|If!
austen|How could I ever think her like her nephew?
austen|Mr E.
austen|It has often led him to be liberal and generous, to give his money freely, to display hospitality, to assist his tenants, and relieve the poor.
dickens|What other?
dickens|Why dont you go and fetch things?
dickens|Look here, said Herbert, showing me the basket, with a compassionate and tender smile, after we had talked a little; heres poor Claras supper, served out every night.
austen|Here,probably this basket with pink ribbon.
dickens|My sister went for the stone bottle, came back with the stone bottle, and poured his brandy out no one else taking any.
dickens|Dont suppose that I mean to be unkind, Biddy, when I say I consider that you ought to have thought that.
austen|She will not even listen to your questions.
austen|It must be something particular, to take him there at this time of year.
dickens|While I complied, he, not comprehending a single word, would stand before the fire surveying me with the air of an Exhibitor, and I would see him, between the fingers of the hand with which I shaded my face, appealing in dumb show to the furniture to take notice of my proficiency.
austen|Mr Bennet, you are wanted immediately; we are all in an uproar.
dickens|Say!
dickens|Gentlemans valise and hot water to Concord.
austen|She looked back; she compared the twocompared them, as they had always stood in her estimation, from the time of the latters becoming known to herand as they must at any time have been compared by her, had itoh!
dickens|When I did at last turn my eyes in Wemmicks direction, I found that he had unposted his pen, and was intent upon the table before him.
dickens|exclaimed both women together.
austen|The contrast between Mrs Churchills importance in the world, and Jane Fairfaxs, struck her; one was every thing, the other nothingand she sat musing on the difference of womans destiny, and quite unconscious on what her eyes were fixed, till roused by Miss Batess saying,  Aye, I see what you are thinking of, the pianoforte.
austen|Did you ever hear of that?
austen|Mr Westons diningroom does not accommodate more than ten comfortably; and for my part, I would rather, under such circumstances, fall short by two than exceed by two.
austen|We shall have no occasion to open the windows at allnot once the whole evening; and it is that dreadful habit of opening the windows, letting in cold air upon heated bodies, which as you well know, sir does the mischief.
dickens|The very children scarcely noticed him.
dickens|Biddy said no more.
dickens|On that, Mr Jaggers said, triumphantly, I thought we should come to it!
dickens|Put the case that he often saw children solemnly tried at a criminal bar, where they were held up to be seen; put the case that he habitually knew of their being imprisoned, whipped, transported, neglected, cast out, qualified in all ways for the hangman, and growing up to be hanged.
austen|But, in spite of these deficiencies, the wishes, the hopes, the confidence, the predictions of the small band of true friends who witnessed the ceremony, were fully answered in the perfect happiness of the union.
austen|Now seriously, what have you ever known of selfdenial and dependence?
dickens|Buried how long?
austen|Emma restrained her indignation, and only turned from her in silence.
dickens|There were tears in his voice too, as he answered  It is too late for that.
dickens|But do I, said Mr Pumblechook, getting up again the moment after he had sat down, see afore me, him as I ever sported with in his times of happy infancy?
austen|But they like it, papa; there is nothing they like so much.
dickens|And yet when he went from here I may say with my blessing, and I spread afore him my humble store, like the Bee, he was as plump as a Peach!
austen|, you have not been to Donwell!
dickens|I am afraidsore afraidthat this purpose originated in my sense of the contrast there would be between me and Joe, if we went to the coach together.
austen|The fishing scheme had been renewed the day before, and a positive engagement made of his meeting some of the gentlemen at Pemberley before noon.
austen|We all had our health perfectly well there, never found the least inconvenience from the mud; and Mr Wingfield says it is entirely a mistake to suppose the place unhealthy; and I am sure he may be depended on, for he thoroughly understands the nature of the air, and his own brother and family have been there repeatedly.
dickens|Is he always alone, then?
austen|Be that as it may, she saw him go with regret; and in this early example of what Lydias infamy must produce, found additional anguish as she reflected on that wretched business.
austen|What an excellent father you have, girls!
dickens|Among the lookerson there was the same expression in all quarters of the court; insomuch, that a great majority of the foreheads there, might have been mirrors reflecting the witness, when the Judge looked up from his notes to glare at that tremendous heresy about George Washington.
dickens|You know the Old Bailey well, no doubt?
dickens|said Joe, in a comfortable tone, Im sure of that.
dickens|Even then, I did exercises for other boys, and seldom did my own.
austen|now you are looking very sly.
dickens|Well, hes going to ask the whole gang,I hardly felt complimented by the word,and whatever he gives you, hell give you good.
austen|There were three others, Jane says, which they hesitated about some time.
dickens|All that I know about Miss Havisham, you know.
austen|Let us flatter ourselves that I may be the survivor.
austen|From their infancy, they have been intended for each other.
austen|He had been thinking it over most deeply, most intently; he had at first hoped to induce Mr Woodhouse to remove with her to Donwell; he had wanted to believe it feasible, but his knowledge of Mr Woodhouse would not suffer him to deceive himself long; and now he confessed his persuasion, that such a transplantation would be a risk of her fathers comfort, perhaps even of his life, which must not be hazarded.
dickens|Well, he returned, drawing a long breath, I hope so.
dickens|But, easy and strong custom, unhappily so much easier and stronger in him than any stimulating sense of desert or disgrace, made it the life he was to lead; and he no more thought of emerging from his state of lions jackal, than any real jackal may be supposed to think of rising to be a lion.
austen|This was so very well understood between them, that Emma could not but feel some surprise, and a little displeasure, on hearing from Mr Weston that he had been proposing to Mrs Elton, as her brother and sister had failed her, that the two parties should unite, and go together; and that as Mrs Elton had very readily acceded to it, so it was to be, if she had no objection.
austen|But, my dear, your father cannot spare the horses, I am sure.
austen|I would not be so fastidious as you are, cried Mr Bingley, for a kingdom!
austen|I do think Mrs Long is as good a creature as ever livedand her nieces are very pretty behaved girls, and not at all handsome I like them prodigiously.
dickens|The figures of a horse and rider came slowly through the eddying mist, and came to the side of the mail, where the passenger stood.
dickens|Faithful dear boy, well done.
dickens|she urged, clinging nearer to him, laying her head upon his breast, and raising her eyes to his, remember how strong we are in our happiness, and how weak he is in his misery!
dickens|No glimpse of daylight was to be seen in it.
dickens|Sustain yourself without that.
austen|As long as she stays there, it is all very well.
dickens|Yes, indeed.
dickens|In the meantime Mr Pocket grew grayer, and tried oftener to lift himself out of his perplexities by the hair.
austen|We may as well leave them by themselves you know; said her mother, as soon as she was in the hall.
dickens|You are not afraid that I am in any fever, or that my head is much disordered by the accident of last night?
austen|Come as soon as you can on receipt of this.
austen|It makes me envious and miserable;I who have never seen it!
austen|But I do not think it is at all a likely thing for him to do.
dickens|You can hear that, miss?
austen|I hope you have pleasant accounts from Windsor?
austen|I will move a little farther off.
dickens|But I doubt if they had more meaning in them than an election cry, and I cannot suggest a darker picture of her state of mind.
dickens|I dont recommend him, observe; because I never recommend anybody.
dickens|Then she softly patted my shoulder in a soothing way, while with my face upon my sleeve I cried a little,exactly as I had done in the brewery yard,and felt vaguely convinced that I was very much illused by somebody, or by everybody; I cant say which.
dickens|Never heard of him.
dickens|asked the man, in a furtive, frightened way.
austen|And no great harm if it does, said Mr Woodhouse.
austen|Her many beginnings were displayed.
dickens|But, what with loitering on the way to look at old objects and to think of old times, the day had quite declined when I came to the place.
dickens|Now, boy!
dickens|Under it, have I said?
austen|If I had studied a twelvemonth, I could never have made any thing like it.
dickens|Will you do me the favour to begin at once to call me by my Christian name, Herbert?
dickens|Now, Ill tell you a piece of information.
dickens|Halloa, Pip!
austen|The evening was quiet and conversable, as Mr Woodhouse declined cards entirely for the sake of comfortable talk with his dear Isabella, and the little party made two natural divisions; on one side he and his daughter; on the other the two Mr Knightleys; their subjects totally distinct, or very rarely mixingand Emma only occasionally joining in one or the other.
dickens|Biddy was astir so early to get my breakfast, that, although I did not sleep at the window an hour, I smelt the smoke of the kitchen fire when I started up with a terrible idea that it must be late in the afternoon.
dickens|And now, says I as the worst thing I can do, caring nothing for myself, Ill drag you back.
austen|But I dare not hope it.
austen|said Elizabeth.
austen|So it appeared to me at least, but I might be mistaken.
dickens|Ridges of faces are thrown to this side and to that, and the ploughs go steadily onward.
austen|It is really too distressing.
dickens|Theyll soon go.
dickens|Yes.
austen|Have I?
dickens|Find out somebody.
dickens|Estella laughed, and looked at the shoe in her hand, and laughed again, and looked at me, and put the shoe down.
dickens|His few common tools and various scraps of leather were at his feet and on his bench.
dickens|I had not thought of both; I should not think either, likely.
austen|Certainly not.
austen|It appears to me so very unlikely that any young man should form such a design against a girl who is by no means unprotected or friendless, and who was actually staying in his colonels family, that I am strongly inclined to hope the best.
dickens|But he always aided and comforted me when he could, in some way of his own, and he always did so at dinnertime by giving me gravy, if there were any.
dickens|What do you think of it, Joe?
austen|She knew that at times she must be missed; and could not think, without pain, of Emmas losing a single pleasure, or suffering an hours ennui, from the want of her companionableness but dear Emma was of no feeble character; she was more equal to her situation than most girls would have been, and had sense, and energy, and spirits that might be hoped would bear her well and happily through its little difficulties and privations.
dickens|Her husbands destiny, said Madame Defarge, with her usual composure, will take him where he is to go, and will lead him to the end that is to end him.
dickens|What I had meant was, that when I came into my property and was able to do something for Joe, it would have been much more agreeable if he had been better qualified for a rise in station.
austen|Mr Woodhouse was almost as much interested in the business as the girls, and tried very often to recollect something worth their putting in.
austen|While the family were in this confusion, Charlotte Lucas came to spend the day with them.
dickens|Well?
dickens|Heres the cook lying insensibly drunk on the kitchen floor, with a large bundle of fresh butter made up in the cupboard ready to sell for grease!
dickens|Her darling was a pleasant sight too, embracing her and thanking her, and protesting against her taking so much trouble for herwhich last she only dared to do playfully, or Miss Pross, sorely hurt, would have retired to her own chamber and cried.
austen|The wish of distinguishing her, as far as civility permitted, was very evident, though it could not often proceed beyond a look.
dickens|My lavish habits led his easy nature into expenses that he could not afford, corrupted the simplicity of his life, and disturbed his peace with anxieties and regrets.
dickens|I think hes all right!
dickens|I asked, keeping up with him.
dickens|Mr Jaggers, putting a hand on my shoulder and walking me on at his side without saying anything to me, addressed himself to his followers.
dickens|Really, is bad enough, returned Miss Pross, but better.
dickens|and from gentlefolks!
dickens|Nothing less than two fat sweltering onepound notes that seemed to have been on terms of the warmest intimacy with all the cattlemarkets in the county.
dickens|It has inspired me with great commiseration, and I hope I understand it and its influences.
dickens|Now, I ask you, you blundering booby, said my guardian, very sternly, once more and for the last time, what the man you have brought here is prepared to swear?
dickens|But I began packing that same afternoon, and wildly packed up things that I knew I should want next morning, in a fiction that there was not a moment to be lost.
austen|I had not been long in Hertfordshire, before I saw, in common with others, that Bingley preferred your elder sister to any other young woman in the country.
dickens|Now you see, Joseph and wife, said Pumblechook, as he took me by the arm above the elbow, I am one of them that always go right through with what theyve begun.
dickens|I will explain my business, by your leave.
dickens|A good patriot, said the other, could hardly have been more afflicted if the Aristocrat had drawn a blank.
austen|She is a most charming young lady indeed.
dickens|My nephew, said the Marquis, glancing at the supper preparation; they said he was not arrived.
dickens|She won the game, and I dealt.
dickens|Put it, he resumed, as the employer of that lawyer whose name begun with a J, and might be Jaggers,put it as he had come over sea to Portsmouth, and had landed there, and had wanted to come on to you.
dickens|Here Joes hat tumbled off the mantelpiece, and he started out of his chair and picked it up, and fitted it to the same exact spot.
austen|There is no admiration between them, I do assure you; and the appearances which have caught you, have arisen from some peculiar circumstancesfeelings rather of a totally different natureit is impossible exactly to explainthere is a good deal of nonsense in itbut the part which is capable of being communicated, which is sense, is, that they are as far from any attachment or admiration for one another, as any two beings in the world can be.
austen|And so extremely accomplished for her age!
austen|I could not have believed it.
austen|They followed her into the diningparlour.
dickens|Lord!
dickens|And now, Sydney, old boy, I want to say a word to you about your prospects.
dickens|Its a freehold, by George!
dickens|Why not?
dickens|Changeless and hopeless, the tumbrils roll along.
austen|I beg your pardon.
austen|They are in the same profession, you know, only in different lines.
austen|What would I give to hear your strictures on them!
austen|Oh!
austen|So far from having long understood you, I have been in a most complete error with respect to your views, till this moment.
austen|In a fortnight they were to goand once gone, she hoped there could be nothing more to plague her on his account.
dickens|With pleasure, said he, though I venture to prophesy that youll want very few hints.
dickens|I entered and he swung it, and locked it, and took the key out.
austen|Then, with the gladness which must be felt, nay, which he did not scruple to feel, having never believed Frank Churchill to be at all deserving Emma, was there so much fond solicitude, so much keen anxiety for her, that he could stay no longer.
dickens|The letter was signed Trabb & Co.
dickens|And has left me, answered the nephew, bound to a system that is frightful to me, responsible for it, but powerless in it; seeking to execute the last request of my dear mothers lips, and obey the last look of my dear mothers eyes, which implored me to have mercy and to redress; and tortured by seeking assistance and power in vain.
dickens|The gentleman I speak of is one Mr Matthew Pocket.
dickens|Thats nigher where it is, said Joe; she aint living.
dickens|The other one still gasped, He triedhe triedtomurder me.
dickens|Give the child into my hands, and I will do my best to bring you off.
austen|How do you do?
austen|A very few days had passed after this adventure, when Harriet came one morning to Emma with a small parcel in her hand, and after sitting down and hesitating, thus began  Miss Woodhouseif you are at leisureI have something that I should like to tell youa sort of confession to makeand then, you know, it will be over.
dickens|We were equals afterwards, as we had been before; but, afterwards at quiet times when I sat looking at Joe and thinking about him, I had a new sensation of feeling conscious that I was looking up to Joe in my heart.
dickens|Do you feel that you have lost her?
dickens|And to sleep long and sound, he answered; for Ive been seatossed and seawashed, months and months.
austen|It was an encouragement of vice; and had I been the rector of Longbourn, I should very strenuously have opposed it.
austen|The difference which Randalls, Randalls alone makes in your goingson, is very great.
austen|What could become of Mr Bingley and Jane!
dickens|A shiver ran through her frame, and from it through his.
dickens|You silly boy, said Estella, quite composedly, how can you talk such nonsense?
austen|By doing it, I shall feel that I am near you.
dickens|All these things I saw without then knowing that I saw them, for I was in an agony of apprehension.
dickens|For a while, I hid myself among some lanes and bypaths, and then struck off to walk all the way to London.
austen|Mr Collins returned into Hertfordshire soon after it had been quitted by the Gardiners and Jane; but as he took up his abode with the Lucases, his arrival was no great inconvenience to Mrs Bennet.
dickens|As he was, when I first saw him after they found me and demanded to know if I would take him, and, at my peril be discreetas he was then, so he is now.
dickens|Its me wot has done it!
dickens|I had come and gone twice, and was again sitting by her, when she began to falter.
dickens|Say it might occupy you including breakfast on the walk from eight to twelve.
austen|No, that I am sure I shall not; and I think it is very impertinent of him to write to you at all, and very hypocritical.
dickens|Mr Wopsle, the clerk at church, was to dine with us; and Mr Hubble the wheelwright and Mrs Hubble; and Uncle Pumblechook Joes uncle, but Mrs Joe appropriated him, who was a welltodo cornchandler in the nearest town, and drove his own chaisecart.
austen|That Mr Elton should really be in love with me,me, of all people, who did not know him, to speak to him, at Michaelmas!
dickens|See!
austen|There is something so shocking in a childs being taken away from his parents and natural home!
austen|You are wisebut I cannot be wise.
austen|There is always some talent in it.
austen|But I will shew her greater attention than I have done.
dickens|s might, or Snooks Brothers might; but Tellsons, thank Heaven!
dickens|Do you know, or do you not know, that the law of England supposes every man to be innocent, until he is provedprovedto be guilty?
austen|This is your final resolve!
austen|Amazed at the alteration of his manner since they last parted, every sentence that he uttered was increasing her embarrassment; and every idea of the impropriety of her being found there recurring to her mind, the few minutes in which they continued were some of the most uncomfortable in her life.
austen|General benevolence, but not general friendship, made a man what he ought to be.
dickens|It wont do for a respectable bank gentleman like you, to be seen speaking to him publicly, you know.
austen|You would have thrown yourself out of all good society.
austen|You blush, Harriet.
austen|And have you heard from him often?
austen|Your reproof, so well applied, I shall never forget had you behaved in a more gentlemanlike manner.
dickens|You are a turnkey at the Conciergerie?
dickens|he asked, presently.
austen|What pinmoney, what jewels, what carriages you will have!
austen|Last Christmas you were afraid of his marrying me, because it would be imprudent; and now, because he is trying to get a girl with only ten thousand pounds, you want to find out that he is mercenary.
dickens|Fiftytwo were to roll that afternoon on the lifetide of the city to the boundless everlasting sea.
austen|Well, cried Elizabeth, have it as you choose.
austen|I did not immediately recollect.
dickens|I was rather confused, thinking it must be out of the London fashion, but said yes.
dickens|He brought the bottle to his lips, and took a fiery drink from it; and I smelt the strong spirits that I saw flash into his face.
dickens|Wait till things slacken, before you try the open, even for foreign air.
austen|Not quite, returned Emma, with forced calmness, for all that you then said, appeared to me to relate to a different person.
dickens|Everybody!
dickens|Say no more now.
austen|Elizabeth dared not lift up her eyes.
dickens|Such a man came upon him, like a ghost, at noon in the July weather, as he sat on his heap of stones under a bank, taking such shelter as he could get from a shower of hail.
austen|One has got all the goodness, and the other all the appearance of it.
austen|I knew you would be wishing me joy.
austen|It was painful, exceedingly painful, to know that they were under obligations to a person who could never receive a return.
dickens|See, there is my husband!
austen|Jane had not been gone a quarter of an hour, and they had only accomplished some views of St.
austen|Thank youbut I always mend my own.
austen|It was no longer in Emmas power to superintend his happiness or quicken his measures.
dickens|But she seemed to be a good sort of fellow, and showed a high regard for the Aged.
dickens|Alas, no, Monseigneur!
austen|Nothing can be actually settled yet, perhaps, replied Emma, smilingbut, excuse me, it must be thought of.
dickens|Well, dear boy, the danger aint so great.
austen|do not repeat what I then said.
dickens|cried the coachman in a warning voice, looking down from his box.
austen|She restrained herself, however, from any of the reproofs she could have given, and only thanked Mrs Elton coolly; but their going to Bath was quite out of the question; and she was not perfectly convinced that the place might suit her better than her father.
dickens|There was little roughness in the sport, and much playfulness.
austen|As a child I was taught what was right, but I was not taught to correct my temper.
dickens|All its people were poor, and many of them were sitting at their doors, shredding spare onions and the like for supper, while many were at the fountain, washing leaves, and grasses, and any such small yieldings of the earth that could be eaten.
dickens|I was pretty good at most exercises in which country boys are adepts, but as I was conscious of wanting elegance of style for the Thames,not to say for other waters,I at once engaged to place myself under the tuition of the winner of a prizewherry who plied at our stairs, and to whom I was introduced by my new allies.
austen|He only wanted to aggrandise and enrich himself; and if Miss Woodhouse of Hartfield, the heiress of thirty thousand pounds, were not quite so easily obtained as he had fancied, he would soon try for Miss Somebody else with twenty, or with ten.
dickens|Well, he returned, there aint many.
austen|Perhaps I intended you to say so, but I meant selfcommand.
dickens|It appeared to me that I could do no better than secure him some quiet lodging hard by, of which he might take possession when Herbert returned whom I expected in two or three days.
dickens|such a poor one, and so much in need of being taught herself!
austen|A man, said he, must have a very good opinion of himself when he asks people to leave their own fireside, and encounter such a day as this, for the sake of coming to see him.
austen|Mr Knightley and Jane Fairfax!
austen|I happened to overhear the gentleman himself mentioning to the young lady who does the honours of the house the names of his cousin Miss de Bourgh, and of her mother Lady Catherine.
dickens|As I stood compassionating her, and thinking how, in the progress of time, I too had come to be a part of the wrecked fortunes of that house, her eyes rested on me.
austen|I suppose you have heard of it; indeed, you must have seen it in the papers.
dickens|He said it with a hard smile, and went on writing.
dickens|As we passed Mr Barleys door, he was heard hoarsely muttering within, in a strain that rose and fell like wind, the following Refrain, in which I substitute good wishes for something quite the reverse  Ahoy!
dickens|Would I find out that boy that had fed him and kep his secret, and give him them two one pound notes?
austen|You have a sweet room here, Mr Bingley, and a charming prospect over the gravel walk.
dickens|I tipped him several more, and he was in great spirits.
dickens|Then I told him all I knew, and how I knew it; with the one reservation that I left him to infer that I knew from Miss Havisham what I in fact knew from Wemmick.
dickens|Quick!
austen|I know we dine with fourandtwenty families.
dickens|Impelled by a laudable ambition to study the art and mystery of his fathers honest calling, Young Jerry, keeping as close to house fronts, walls, and doorways, as his eyes were close to one another, held his honoured parent in view.
dickens|Of course, said I.
austen|And while Mrs Weston pays her visit, I may be allowed, I hope, said Frank Churchill, to join your party and wait for her at Hartfieldif you are going home.
dickens|How long we might have remained in this ridiculous position it is impossible to say, but for the incursion of three thriving farmerslaid on by the waiter, I thinkwho came into the coffeeroom unbuttoning their greatcoats and rubbing their hands, and before whom, as they charged at the fire, we were obliged to give way.
dickens|Spies!
austen|had I known what I ought, what I dared to do!
dickens|Ask one, said Mr Jaggers.
dickens|Sydney was none the livelier and none the soberer for so much application.
austen|yesMr Elton, I understandcertainly as to dancingMrs Cole was telling me that dancing at the rooms at Bath wasMrs Cole was so kind as to sit some time with us, talking of Jane; for as soon as she came in, she began inquiring after her, Jane is so very great a favourite there.
austen|Oh!
austen|That he should never have been able to indulge so amiable a feeling before, passed suspiciously through Emmas brain; but still, if it were a falsehood, it was a pleasant one, and pleasantly handled.
dickens|No, no, said Wemmick, coolly, you dont care.
dickens|I had scarcely arrived at the total when a seventh was heard, as in the region of air, wailing dolefully.
dickens|II learnt it here.
dickens|Over the chair they had thrown a red flag, and to the back of it they had bound a pike with a red cap on its top.
austen|Mrs Gardiner looked at her niece with a smile, but Elizabeth could not return it.
austen|But I am very far from agreeing with you in your estimation of ladies in general.
austen|Mrs Bennet could not give her consent or speak her approbation in terms warm enough to satisfy her feelings, though she talked to Bingley of nothing else for half an hour; and when Mr Bennet joined them at supper, his voice and manner plainly showed how really happy he was.
dickens|And regarding that name of Pross, likewise.
austen|My dear sir, replied Mr Collins, I am particularly obliged to you for this friendly caution, and you may depend upon my not taking so material a step without her ladyships concurrence.
dickens|Blest if she aint in a queer condition!
dickens|The papers are handed out, and read.
austen|dear, yes; but you must own she is very plain.
austen|My mother is tolerably well, I trust; though her spirits are greatly shaken.
dickens|You dont want me any more?
austen|And is she, at seventeen, just entering into life, just beginning to be known, to be wondered at because she does not accept the first offer she receives?
austen|No, he felt that it ought not to be attempted.
austen|It was a subject which they could not mention before me.
austen|He is a fortunate man indeed!
dickens|Wot I say, forbid it!
austen|On this article I can fully acquit him.
austen|I thought him very sly;he hardly ever mentioned your name.
austen|The same anxiety to get them by themselves was visible again in the evening.
dickens|With an exclamation of impatience, but with his unchangeable face, Monseigneur looked out.
dickens|He recovered himself so quickly, however, that Mr Lorry had doubts of his business eye.
dickens|I beg your pardon, Mr Jaggers.
austen|One cannot wonder, one cannot wonder.
austen|We have dined nine times at Rosings, besides drinking tea there twice!
austen|No, no, not at allonly a little agitated.
austen|He came down by yesterdays coach, and was with me this morning immediately after breakfast, to report his proceedings, first on my affairs, and then on his own.
austen|Oh!
austen|Nothing could be more delightful!
austen|In short, she sat, during the first visit, looking at Jane Fairfax with twofold complacency; the sense of pleasure and the sense of rendering justice, and was determining that she would dislike her no longer.
dickens|You, your fathers daughter!
dickens|If the Republic demands sacrifices from you, without doubt you as a good patriot will be happy to make them.
austen|But lowering her voicenobody speaks except ourselves, and it is rather too much to be talking nonsense for the entertainment of seven silent people.
dickens|Now you all know where to take your stations when you come to feast upon me.
dickens|From the Hulks!
dickens|There was a steaming mist in all the hollows, and it had roamed in its forlornness up the hill, like an evil spirit, seeking rest and finding none.
dickens|It appeared to me that he must be a very happy man indeed, to have so many little drawers in his shop; and I wondered when I peeped into one or two on the lower tiers, and saw the tiedup brown paper packets inside, whether the flowerseeds and bulbs ever wanted of a fine day to break out of those jails, and bloom.
dickens|I am sometimes.
austen|The mischief of neglect and mistaken indulgence towards such a girloh!
austen|Mr Darcy smiled; but Elizabeth thought she could perceive that he was rather offended, and therefore checked her laugh.
austen|Mrs Weston had, of course, formed a very favourable idea of the young man; and such a pleasing attention was an irresistible proof of his great good sense, and a most welcome addition to every source and every expression of congratulation which her marriage had already secured.
austen|Mrs Elton, very willing to suppose a particular compliment intended her by such a hope, smiled most graciously.
austen|The officer was the very Mr Denny concerning whose return from London Lydia came to inquire, and he bowed as they passed.
austen|Whatever my connections may be, said Elizabeth, if your nephew does not object to them, they can be nothing to you.
dickens|To go on  But this is my fathers story, sir; and I begin to thinkthe curiously roughened forehead was very intent upon himthat when I was left an orphan through my mothers surviving my father only two years, it was you who brought me to England.
dickens|Doctor Manette sat down, with his eyes looking around, and his lips trembling; his daughter drew closer to him.
austen|We all know him to be a proud, unpleasant sort of man; but this would be nothing if you really liked him.
dickens|The man was limping on towards this latter, as if he were the pirate come to life, and come down, and going back to hook himself up again.
dickens|Shes flighty, you know,very flighty,quite flighty enough to pass her days in a sedanchair.
dickens|Yes!
dickens|Mr Pocket was out lecturing; for, he was a most delightful lecturer on domestic economy, and his treatises on the management of children and servants were considered the very best textbooks on those themes.
dickens|What do you mean?
austen|dear Mrs Elton, so obliged to you for the carriage!
dickens|Then, like the best of men, said Miss Pross, go to the postinghouse straight, and make that change.
dickens|Ah!
austen|Quite wonderful how she does her hair!
dickens|Ah, confound you!
dickens|With an encouraging nod or two, he immediately went out to alter the arrangements, and left her by herself to follow as she had proposed.
austen|Indeed you should take care of yourself as well as of your friend.
austen|Elizabeth reserved to herself the application for her mothers.
austen|The beginning contained an account of all their little parties and engagements, with such news as the country afforded; but the latter half, which was dated a day later, and written in evident agitation, gave more important intelligence.
dickens|I walked away at a good pace, thinking it was easier to go than I had supposed it would be, and reflecting that it would never have done to have had an old shoe thrown after the coach, in sight of all the High Street.
dickens|Dear boy, and Pips comrade, you two may count upon me always having a genteel muzzle on.
austen|Their eyes instantly met, and the cheeks of both were overspread with the deepest blush.
austen|The fever was over, and Emma could harbour little fear of the pulse being quickened again by injurious courtesy.
dickens|And has it come to this!
austen|How I could so long a time be fancying myself!
dickens|No, Miss Manette, to none.
dickens|I would tell him before breakfast.
dickens|Well!
dickens|You did not gradually open your round childish eyes wider and wider to the discovery of that impostor of a woman who calculates her stores of peace of mind for when she wakes up in the night.
dickens|When I at last took courage to return to the room, I found Estella sitting at Miss Havishams knee, taking up some stitches in one of those old articles of dress that were dropping to pieces, and of which I have often been reminded since by the faded tatters of old banners that I have seen hanging up in cathedrals.
dickens|Dont lose your temper.
austen|Emma was out of hearing.
austen|It is wonderful, replied Wickham, for almost all his actions may be traced to pride; and pride had often been his best friend.
dickens|Monseigneur received him in a courtly manner, but they did not shake hands.
dickens|I have tried to warn you of this; now, have I not?
dickens|It cannot be accomplished, it never can be done, it has been attempted, and has always failed.
dickens|I tell you what I should like.
dickens|I feel his sacred tears upon my face, and his sobs strike against my heart.
dickens|What do you say to coffee?
austen|You are safe from me.
dickens|I dont think it would answer.
dickens|If any one of the three had had the hardihood to propose to another to walk on a little ahead into the mist and darkness, he would have put himself in a fair way of getting shot instantly as a highwayman.
austen|Mrs Weston said no more; and Emma could imagine with what surprize and mortification she must be returning to her seat.
austen|Nothing hastily done; nothing incomplete.
austen|But you would not wish me to come away before I am tired, papa?
austen|My fingers wait your orders.
austen|Mr Woodhouse had been safely seated long enough to give the history of it, besides all the history of his own and Isabellas coming, and of Emmas being to follow, and had indeed just got to the end of his satisfaction that James should come and see his daughter, when the others appeared, and Mrs Weston, who had been almost wholly engrossed by her attentions to him, was able to turn away and welcome her dear Emma.
dickens|I thought there must really be something more here than I knew; she saw the thought in my mind, and answered it.
austen|The result of his thoughts appeared at last in these words.
dickens|So Herbert and Clara say, but I dont think I shall, Biddy.
dickens|I speak for myself, answered Mr Lorry, and for Mr Darnay, and for Miss Lucie, andMiss Lucie, do you not think I may speak for us all?
dickens|She had never seen him softened, and was much distressed.
dickens|Foulon who told the starving people they might eat grass!
austen|It was made a great favour of; and altogether it was more than I could bear; and so I never would finish it, to have it apologised over as an unfavourable likeness, to every morning visitor in Brunswick Square;and, as I said, I did then forswear ever drawing any body again.
dickens|Rather tall, of a lithe nimble figure, extremely pale, with large faded eyes, and a quantity of streaming hair.
dickens|Suddenly they stopped again, paused, struck out the time afresh, formed into lines the width of the public way, and, with their heads low down and their hands high up, swooped screaming off.
dickens|I have been thinking, Joe, that when I go down town on Monday, and order my new clothes, I shall tell the tailor that Ill come and put them on there, or that Ill have them sent to Mr Pumblechooks.
dickens|He had a closet in his room, fitted up for the purpose, which smelt of the scented soap like a perfumers shop.
dickens|And in his last breath reproached me for stooping to a boor!
austen|Instead of answering, Harriet turned away confused, and stood thoughtfully by the fire; and though the letter was still in her hand, it was now mechanically twisted about without regard.
dickens|I was so doubtful of myself now, and put so much trust in him, that I could not satisfy myself whether I ought to refer to it when he did not.
dickens|Well?
dickens|So did Orlick, at my side.
dickens|As there was a loft above, I called, Is there any one here?
austen|That it was time for every body to go, concluded the subject; and with a short final arrangement for the next days scheme, they parted.
austen|Does it not expressly declare that Caroline neither expects nor wishes me to be her sister; that she is perfectly convinced of her brothers indifference; and that if she suspects the nature of my feelings for him, she means most kindly!
austen|The Enscombe family were not in town quite so soon as had been imagined, but he was at Highbury very soon afterwards.
austen|But why must she consent to be with the Eltons?
dickens|Yes; but my dear Handel, Herbert went on, as if we had been talking, instead of silent, its having been so strongly rooted in the breast of a boy whom nature and circumstances made so romantic, renders it very serious.
dickens|At Tellsons bankinghouse at nine, he said, with a musing face.
dickens|He whistled a little.
austen|He had told her that he could not allow himself the pleasure of stopping at Hartfield, as he was to be at home by the middle of the day.
austen|when he was speaking of my future home, and expressing his fears lest the retirement of it should be disagreeable; and the inferiority of the house tooknowing what I had been accustomed toof course he was not wholly without apprehension.
dickens|I asked, recoiling from the brute, as Wemmick spat upon his eyebrow and gave it a rub with his sleeve.
austen|Young ladies have great penetration in such matters as these; but I think I may defy even your sagacity, to discover the name of your admirer.
austen|Their fortune on both sides is splendid.
austen|I am grieved indeed, cried Darcy; grievedshocked.
dickens|For the truth.
austen|And one of my own daughters.
austen|But really, I could almost venture, if Harriet would sit to me.
austen|What, has she frightened away some of your lovers?
dickens|In their presence, pursued Pumblechook, I will tell you, young man, what to say to Joseph.
austen|YesI have called there; passing the door, I thought it better.
austen|the ladies had crowded round the table, where Miss Bennet was making tea, and Elizabeth pouring out the coffee, in so close a confederacy that there was not a single vacancy near her which would admit of a chair.
dickens|Thus it had come to pass, that Tellsons was the triumphant perfection of inconvenience.
dickens|Their lists went forth every evening, and were read out by the gaolers of the various prisons to their prisoners.
austen|His tender compassion towards oppressed worth can go no farther.
dickens|I think its tender, because the master of the shop was a Juryman in some cases of ours the other day, and we let him down easy.
dickens|He cannot easily touch his face, his arms being bound.
dickens|Chase was given to some scores of inoffensive persons who had never been near the Old Bailey in their lives, in the realisation of this fancy, and they were roughly hustled and maltreated.
dickens|Georgiana, whom I had seen at Miss Havishams on the same occasion, also turned up.
austen|I felt for your dear father very much in the storm of Tuesday afternoon and yesterday morning, but had the comfort of hearing last night, by Mr Perry, that it had not made him ill.
dickens|What revenge?
austen|Oh!
dickens|She stretched out her hand, and I went down on my knee and put it to my lips.
austen|What shall we do with him?
austen|She was ashamed to think how much.
dickens|I says, I hope it may be so.
austen|But, my dear child, the time is drawing near; here is April, and June, or say even July, is very near, with such business to accomplish before us.
austen|I was saying this to Mr Cole but yesterday, and he quite agreed with me; only he is so particularly fond of music that he could not help indulging himself in the purchase, hoping that some of our good neighbours might be so obliging occasionally to put it to a better use than we can; and that really is the reason why the instrument was boughtor else I am sure we ought to be ashamed of it.
austen|May I, indeed?
dickens|Barsad?
dickens|It was in this place, and at this moment, that a strange thing happened to my fancy.
dickens|This favoured the desperate resolution Charles Darnay had begun to make, that he would go to Paris.
austen|She read over her aunts commendation of him again and again.
dickens|I shall never be better than I am.
austen|That, I thought, in a man of known musical talent, was some proof.
dickens|You English are cold, it seems to me.
austen|Mr Elton returned, a very happy man.
dickens|Still, no new cause for fear arose.
dickens|Who moved uneasily on his feet, rubbed his beard a little, and at length said  Well!
dickens|For, all things moved so fast, and decree followed decree with that fierce precipitation, that now upon the third night of the autumn month of September, patriot emissaries of the law were in possession of Monseigneurs house, and had marked it with the tricolour, and were drinking brandy in its state apartments.
austen|On her side, all was warmth, energy, and triumphand she positively refused to take her friends negative, though Miss Fairfax continued to assure her that she would not at present engage in any thing, repeating the same motives which she had been heard to urge before.
austen|It was a sweet viewsweet to the eye and the mind.
austen|Now Emma could, indeed, enjoy Mr Knightleys visits; now she could talk, and she could listen with true happiness, unchecked by that sense of injustice, of guilt, of something most painful, which had haunted her when remembering how disappointed a heart was near her, how much might at that moment, and at a little distance, be enduring by the feelings which she had led astray herself.
austen|The Bennets were speedily pronounced to be the luckiest family in the world, though only a few weeks before, when Lydia had first run away, they had been generally proved to be marked out for misfortune.
austen|That will be a favour indeed!
austen|I know we agreed never to name himbut considering how infinitely superior he is to every body else, I should not have thought it possible that I could be supposed to mean any other person.
austen|Emmas attempts to stop her father had been vain; and when he had reached such a point as this, she could not wonder at her brotherinlaws breaking out.
dickens|If the Republic should demand of you the sacrifice of your child herself, you would have no duty but to sacrifice her.
austen|These causes must be stated, though briefly.
dickens|But I must say more.
dickens|But, you understand that that was not the child I am speaking of?
dickens|But the old boy was so far from responding, that he would not even walk to Hammersmith on the same side of the way; so Herbert and I, who remained in town, saw them going down the street on opposite sides; Startop leading, and Drummle lagging behind in the shadow of the houses, much as he was wont to follow in his boat.
dickens|Only neither of us is, I remarked.
austen|My dear, dear Lydia!
dickens|Mr Jaggers presided, Estella sat opposite to him, I faced my green and yellow friend.
dickens|Haunted by her feverish apprehensions, she could not bear to have her sight obscured for a minute at a time by the dripping water, but constantly paused and looked round to see that there was no one watching her.
dickens|Is he in London?
dickens|I could see in the action of Estellas fingers as they worked that she attended to what I said; but she did not look up.
dickens|And will the other gentleman originate a sentiment.
austen|But of this answer Lydia heard not a word.
austen|I dared not address her openly; my difficulties in the then state of Enscombe must be too well known to require definition; and I was fortunate enough to prevail, before we parted at Weymouth, and to induce the most upright female mind in the creation to stoop in charity to a secret engagement.
austen|In her own past behaviour, there was a constant source of vexation and regret; and in the unhappy defects of her family, a subject of yet heavier chagrin.
austen|only think!
dickens|Murder him?
austen|The walk being here less sheltered than on the other side, allowed them to see him before they met.
dickens|What man, pig?
dickens|It began to be unnecessary to repeat the form of saying he might, so he did it at once.
dickens|Pray take a seat, sir.
dickens|If I knew which rascal threw at the carriage, and if that brigand were sufficiently near it, he should be crushed under the wheels.
austen|This letter reached me on the very morning of my poor aunts death.
austen|Her astonishment, as she reflected on what had passed, was increased by every review of it.
dickens|The likeness passed away, like a breath along the surface of the gaunt pierglass behind her, on the frame of which, a hospital procession of negro cupids, several headless and all cripples, were offering black baskets of Dead Sea fruit to black divinities of the feminine genderand he made his formal bow to Miss Manette.
dickens|But, the stars were shining beyond the mist, and the moon was coming, and the evening was not dark.
dickens|Glancing at his hands, which were discoloured by his late work, the Doctor looked troubled, and listened attentively.
austen|Ah!
dickens|Then you may rely upon it, said Herbert, that there would be great danger of his doing it.
dickens|It appeared to be a collection of back lanes, ditches, and little gardens, and to present the aspect of a rather dull retirement.
dickens|It was an uncomfortable consideration on a twentyfirst birthday, that coming of age at all seemed hardly worth while in such a guarded and suspicious world as he made of it.
austen|I am sorry you think so; but if that be the case, there can at least be no want of subject.
austen|She understood it all; and as far as her mind could disengage itself from the injustice and selfishness of angry feelings, she acknowledged that Jane Fairfax would have neither elevation nor happiness beyond her desert.
dickens|As I could do no service there, and as I had, nearer home, that pressing reason for anxiety and fear which even her wanderings could not drive out of my mind, I decided, in the course of the night that I would return by the early morning coach, walking on a mile or so, and being taken up clear of the town.
austen|To you, he will talk of farming; to me, of drawing or music; and so on to every body, having that general information on all subjects which will enable him to follow the lead, or take the lead, just as propriety may require, and to speak extremely well on each; that is my idea of him.
austen|Mrs Bennet was diffuse in her good wishes for the felicity of her daughter, and impressive in her injunctions that she should not miss the opportunity of enjoying herself as much as possibleadvice which there was every reason to believe would be well attended to; and in the clamorous happiness of Lydia herself in bidding farewell, the more gentle adieus of her sisters were uttered without being heard.
dickens|Now, dont let my announcement of the name make you uncomfortable, Sydney, said Mr Stryver, preparing him with ostentatious friendliness for the disclosure he was about to make, because I know you dont mean half you say; and if you meant it all, it would be of no importance.
dickens|Nothing.
dickens|Too indifferent at first, even to look round and ascertain who supported me, I was lying looking at the ladder, when there came between me and it a face.
dickens|What are you?
austen|My Emma, does not every thing serve to prove more and more the beauty of truth and sincerity in all our dealings with each other?
dickens|Leaving just room enough for the play of the oars, she kept alongside, drifting when we drifted, and pulling a stroke or two when we pulled.
austen|We must have Mrs Long and the Gouldings soon.
austen|A few weeks, he believed.
dickens|It is impossible to express with what acuteness I felt the convicts breathing, not only on the back of my head, but all along my spine.
austen|The joy, the gratitude, the exquisite delight of her sensations may be imagined.
austen|Mr Knightley connected it with the dream; but how it could all be, was beyond his comprehension.
austen|The delicacy of her mind throughout the whole engagement, my dear madam, is much beyond my power of doing justice to.
dickens|There was no pause, no pity, no peace, no interval of relenting rest, no measurement of time.
dickens|Nor, how I passed and repassed the gate many times before I could make up my mind to ring.
dickens|Gentlemen, adieu!
dickens|Now, I hear Somebodys step coming to the door.
austen|She would catch a dreadful cold.
dickens|You rewarded me very much.
dickens|asked the landlord, vacillating weakly.
austen|Her manners, tooand Mr Eltons, were unpleasant towards Harriet.
austen|It is not to be supposed that there was much affection in the case.
dickens|Look at me!
dickens|Cant say, said I.
austen|This was one point, with regard to Lydia, at least, which was now to be settled, and Mr Bennet could have no hesitation in acceding to the proposal before him.
dickens|Our conference being now ended, and everything arranged, I rose to go; remarking to Herbert that he and I had better not go home together, and that I would take half an hours start of him.
austen|But he is, beyond all comparison, the most agreeable man I ever sawand if he becomes really attached to meI believe it will be better that he should not.
austen|If it be not inconvenient to you, pray let us go in, that I may prove myself to belong to the place, to be a true citizen of Highbury.
austen|He had only himself to please in his choice his fortune was his own; for as to Frank, it was more than being tacitly brought up as his uncles heir, it had become so avowed an adoption as to have him assume the name of Churchill on coming of age.
dickens|Mr Cruncher had no particular meaning in these sulky corroborations, but made use of them, as people not unfrequently do, to express general ironical dissatisfaction.
austen|She was sure of Mrs Westons wishing it to be communicated; especially to one, who, like Mr Knightley, had seen so much to blame in his conduct.
austen|cried he, with more feeling than politeness; then recollecting himself, I will not detain you a minute; but let me, or let the servant go after Mr and Mrs Gardiner.
austen|No trouble in the world, maam, said the obliging Mrs Ford.
austen|Oh!
dickens|Have you any idea yet, of Estellas views on the adoration question?
dickens|Our clerk at church.
austen|That would be a good scheme, said Elizabeth, if you were sure that they would not offer to send her home.
austen|Though I know it must be a scandalous falsehood, though I would not injure him so much as to suppose the truth of it possible, I instantly resolved on setting off for this place, that I might make my sentiments known to you.
austen|Emma recollected, blushed, was sorry, but tried to laugh it off.
austen|The colour which had been driven from her face, returned for half a minute with an additional glow, and a smile of delight added lustre to her eyes, as she thought for that space of time that his affection and wishes must still be unshaken.
dickens|Under what law, and for what offence?
dickens|A pause of forgetfulness, and then he had even suffered, and had come back to her, dead and at peace, and yet there was no difference in him.
dickens|There, as it had an abrupt turn in it, they came all at once in sight of three men, whose heads were bent down close together at the side of a door, and who were intently looking into the room to which the door belonged, through some chinks or holes in the wall.
austen|For your sake, turning to Charlotte, I am glad of it; but otherwise I see no occasion for entailing estates from the female line.
austen|Elizabeth coloured and laughed as she replied, Yes, you know enough of my frankness to believe me capable of that.
dickens|Now, take this paper that Doctor Manette has carried about him.
dickens|If I dont, youll have short commons, tomorrow, returned that gentleman, shaking his head; thats questions enough for you; I aint a going out, till youve been long abed.
dickens|Joe is a dear good fellow,in fact, I think he is the dearest fellow that ever lived,but he is rather backward in some things.
austen|At least you admire her except her complexion.
austen|She was delighted to see her father look comfortable, and very much pleased with herself for contriving things so well; but the quiet prosings of three such women made her feel that every evening so spent was indeed one of the long evenings she had fearfully anticipated.
austen|It taught me to hope, said he, as I had scarcely ever allowed myself to hope before.
austen|It will be bad enough for the horses.
austen|Very pretty, sir, upon my word; to send me on here, to be an encumbrance to my friends, so long before you vouchsafe to come!
austen|And then there was such comfort in the very easy distance of Randalls from Hartfield, so convenient for even solitary female walking, and in Mr Westons disposition and circumstances, which would make the approaching season no hindrance to their spending half the evenings in the week together.
dickens|Almost eighteen years.
dickens|I say, you know!
austen|Elizabeth Bennet, said Miss Bingley, when the door was closed on her, is one of those young ladies who seek to recommend themselves to the other sex by undervaluing their own; and with many men, I dare say, it succeeds.
dickens|May  I saw he was about to come at me again, and I stopped him.
dickens|I stopped for a moment to consider whether there really was this mixture in my character.
dickens|However, my determined manner would have its effect, and Herbert would fall to work again.
austen|You will not be fit to be seen when you get there.
dickens|He stood for an instant with the finger yet raised, and as it dropped, he dropped with it, and I laid him down dead.
austen|No indeed!
austen|At last it was all settled, even to the destination of the parcel.
austen|But there are two things that I want very much to know; one is, how much money your uncle has laid down to bring it about; and the other, how am I ever to pay him.
austen|She could not respect his eye, but his love and his complaisance were unexceptionable.
dickens|The President rang his bell; but, The Vengeance, warming with encouragement, shrieked, I defy that bell!
dickens|No doubt.
dickens|I answered with a constraint I made no attempt to disguise, that I had seen Mr Jaggers in Miss Havishams house on the very day of our combat, but never at any other time, and that I believed he had no recollection of having ever seen me there.
austen|Would Jane but go, means were to be found, servants sent, friends contrivedno travelling difficulty allowed to exist; but still she had declined it!
austen|You will never recommend yourself to his friend by so doing!
dickens|We have done wrong?
dickens|Almost a night, Jerry, said Mr Lorry, to bring the dead out of their graves.
dickens|Ah!
austen|said Mrs John Knightley.
dickens|It was at this dark time of my life that Herbert returned home one evening, a good deal cast down, and said,  My dear Handel, I fear I shall soon have to leave you.
dickens|Hah!
austen|After sitting long enough to admire every article of furniture in the room, from the sideboard to the fender, to give an account of their journey, and of all that had happened in London, Mr Collins invited them to take a stroll in the garden, which was large and well laid out, and to the cultivation of which he attended himself.
austen|Perhaps we might be deceived.
austen|What advantage can it be for you to offend Mr Darcy?
dickens|Stop!
austen|And, upon my word, I do not think Mr Knightley would be much disturbed by Miss Bates.
austen|I am afraid I am sometimes very fanciful and troublesome.
dickens|With those words, and a final snap of his fingers, Mr Stryver shouldered himself into Fleetstreet, amidst the general approbation of his hearers.
austen|Has she been presented?
dickens|You know his employer?
austen|So extremely like Maple Grove!
dickens|When Doctor Manette was released, you, his old domestic, had the charge of him, I know.
dickens|My dear!
austen|Yes, I immediately perceive that it must be the joint present of Mr and Mrs Dixon.
dickens|So with the three passengers shut up in the narrow compass of one lumbering old mail coach; they were mysteries to one another, as complete as if each had been in his own coach and six, or his own coach and sixty, with the breadth of a county between him and the next.
austen|Charming young man!
dickens|said Madame Defarge.
austen|They were interrupted.
dickens|Is this a cut?
austen|She was a great talker upon little matters, which exactly suited Mr Woodhouse, full of trivial communications and harmless gossip.
dickens|Have you found it?
austen|She, therefore, said no more for some time.
dickens|If your suit should prosper, if Lucie should love you, you shall tell me on your marriage morning.
dickens|Under the President sat Doctor Manette, in his usual quiet dress.
dickens|In writing by post to Magwitchin New South Walesor in communicating with him through Provis, have the goodness to mention that the particulars and vouchers of our long account shall be sent to you, together with the balance; for there is still a balance remaining.
dickens|I confess that I expected to see my sister denounce him, and that I was disappointed by the different result.
dickens|So, felons were not lodged and fed better than soldiers to say nothing of paupers, and seldom set fire to their prisons with the excusable object of improving the flavor of their soup.
dickens|returned the cheerful old man, so busy and so pleased, that it really was quite charming.
austen|Elizabeth had received none since her return that could come from Pemberley.
austen|And if not able to please himself in the arrangement, he has at least pleasure in the great power of choice.
dickens|While we were still on our way to those detached apartments across the paved yard at the back, he asked me how often I had seen Miss Havisham eat and drink; offering me a breadth of choice, as usual, between a hundred times and once.
dickens|He shook his head when I then asked him if she had recovered.
austen|Tis a sad business.
dickens|I could feel the muscles of the thin arm round my neck swell with the vehemence that possessed her.
austen|I cannot deny that Miss Woodhouse was my ostensible objectbut I am sure you will believe the declaration, that had I not been convinced of her indifference, I would not have been induced by any selfish views to go on.
austen|I thought he meant to try his skill, by his manner of declining it yesterday.
dickens|There is nobody to weep for me.
austen|No lurking horrors were to upbraid him for his easy credulity.
austen|A few more tomorrows, and the party from London would be arriving.
austen|very wrong, very wrong indeed.
austen|What nonsense one talks, Miss Woodhouse, when hard at work, if one talks at all;your real workmen, I suppose, hold their tongues; but we gentlemen labourers if we get hold of a wordMiss Fairfax said something about conjecturing.
austen|And her situation is so calculated to affect one!
dickens|To me, the remembrance of our last parting has been ever mournful and painful.
austen|Mary had heard herself mentioned to Miss Bingley as the most accomplished girl in the neighbourhood; and Catherine and Lydia had been fortunate enough never to be without partners, which was all that they had yet learnt to care for at a ball.
austen|I wish my health allowed me to be a better neighbour.
dickens|There were days once, I know, that I did for a while forget; but I never shall forget these.
dickens|The trial had lasted all day, and the lamps in the court were now being lighted.
austen|They will be extremely glad to see you, I am sure; and one of my servants shall go with you to shew you the way.
dickens|She was dressed in rich materials,satins, and lace, and silks,all of white.
dickens|said Mr Lorry, who had left her in exactly the same attitude some seventeen years ago.
austen|It is really too great a violation of decency, honour, and interest, for him to be guilty of.
austen|We shall only be making each other more angry.
austen|I have quite a horror of upstarts.
dickens|Not knowing how he lost himself, or how he recovered himself, he may never feel certain of not losing himself again.
dickens|I know him!
dickens|Lord!
dickens|Impassive faces, yet with a suspendednot an abolishedexpression on them; faces, rather, in a fearful pause, as having yet to raise the dropped lids of the eyes, and bear witness with the bloodless lips, THOU DIDST IT!
austen|With all the eagerness which such a transition gives, Emma resolved to be out of doors as soon as possible.
austen|He saw a short word prepared for Emma, and given to her with a look sly and demure.
austen|He is his own master.
austen|It must be all conjecture.
austen|Harriets staying away so long was beginning to make her uneasy.
austen|What say you, Mary?
dickens|There was nobody but himself, he intimated, worthy of my confidence, andin short, might he?
dickens|Ever forgiving and ever affable.
dickens|I dont know that.
austen|He was invited on good faith.
austen|She continued in very agitated reflections till the sound of Lady Catherines carriage made her feel how unequal she was to encounter Charlottes observation, and hurried her away to her room.
austen|What ever she might feel of brighter hope, she betrayed nothing.
dickens|I have been bent and broken, butI hopeinto a better shape.
austen|,  E.
dickens|Gently, Handel.
austen|Could he, or the Lucases, have pitched on any man within the circle of our acquaintance, whose name would have given the lie more effectually to what they related?
dickens|With which he took them out, and gave them, not to Miss Havisham, but to me.
dickens|Everybody should know his own business, said Mr Jaggers.
dickens|said Wemmick.
dickens|said the convict I had never seen.
dickens|Yes, I replied, very shortly.
dickens|Nor you, sweettempered Biddy!
austen|it is of no consequence.
dickens|Have no imagination at all.
dickens|But that he was not to be, without ignorance or prejudice, mistaken for a gentleman, my father most strongly asseverates; because it is a principle of his that no man who was not a true gentleman at heart ever was, since the world began, a true gentleman in manner.
dickens|He had put up a hand between his eyes and the light, and the very bones of it seemed transparent.
austen|Mr Churchills loss would be dreadful indeed.
austen|Widely different was the effect of a second perusal.
austen|Yes, maam, that he was indeed; and his son will be just like himjust as affable to the poor.
dickens|Well!
austen|Two obstacles of the five being thus removed, Mrs Bennet sat looking and winking at Elizabeth and Catherine for a considerable time, without making any impression on them.
austen|and when she had gone through the whole letter, though scarcely knowing anything of the last page or two, put it hastily away, protesting that she would not regard it, that she would never look in it again.
dickens|Every Christmas Day, Mrs Joe replied, as she now replied, O, Uncle Pumblechook!
dickens|She has been with him many a long year.
dickens|The candles that lighted that room of hers were placed in sconces on the wall.
austen|I am all amazement!
dickens|Fetch barber to Concord.
austen|She was most sorrowfully indignant; ashamed of every sensation but the one revealed to herher affection for Mr Knightley.
dickens|Yes, Biddy, I observed, when I had done turning it over, you were my first teacher, and that at a time when we little thought of ever being together like this, in this kitchen.
austen|The regular and best families Emma could hardly suppose they would presume to inviteneither Donwell, nor Hartfield, nor Randalls.
dickens|All things have worked together as they have fallen out.
austen|It is the fault of her face that she has them not.
dickens|I have no softness there, nosympathysentimentnonsense.
dickens|Within the carriage there.
austen|So, do not put yourself to inconvenience.
dickens|Are you, Joe?
austen|Put them next to your greatuncle the judge.
austen|I am no young lady on her preferment.
dickens|She was insensible, and I was afraid to have her moved, or even touched.
dickens|What to do now, I could not tell.
dickens|So she sat, corpselike, as we played at cards; the frillings and trimmings on her bridal dress, looking like earthy paper.
dickens|My heart failed me when I saw him squaring at me with every demonstration of mechanical nicety, and eyeing my anatomy as if he were minutely choosing his bone.
austen|Do not imagine me in danger of forgetting it.
austen|Will you tell me how long you have loved him?
dickens|O, you must take the purse!
dickens|You dont get on with your account of your matrimonial intentions,  answered Carton, with a careless air; I wish you would keep to that.
austen|Oh!
austen|My mind, however, is now made up on the subject, for having received ordination at Easter, I have been so fortunate as to be distinguished by the patronage of the Right Honourable Lady Catherine de Bourgh, widow of Sir Lewis de Bourgh, whose bounty and beneficence has preferred me to the valuable rectory of this parish, where it shall be my earnest endeavour to demean myself with grateful respect towards her ladyship, and be ever ready to perform those rites and ceremonies which are instituted by the Church of England.
austen|They have at least that advantage.
austen|Elizabeth looked surprised.
dickens|You are in a bad way, you know; you really are in a bad way.
dickens|My last supplication of all, is this; and with it, I will relieve you of a visitor with whom I well know you have nothing in unison, and between whom and you there is an impassable space.
austen|I am satisfied.
dickens|said Joe, in the placidest way.
dickens|Similarly, I must have my smoke.
dickens|These?
dickens|It is in wain for a boy to attempt to hide himself from that young man.
austen|Every friend of Miss Taylor must be glad to have her so happily married.
dickens|He looks into the first of them not there.
dickens|After an interval of suspense on my part that was quite enthralling and almost painful, I saw his hand appear on the other side of Miss Skiffins.
austen|You look pale.
dickens|If I could hope that, my father!
austen|Her mind was less difficult to develop.
austen|I am exceedingly gratified, said Bingley, by your converting what my friend says into a compliment on the sweetness of my temper.
austen|I wish Jane Fairfax very well; but she tires me to death.
austen|On this point she was soon satisfied; and two or three little circumstances occurred ere they parted, which, in her anxious interpretation, denoted a recollection of Jane not untinctured by tenderness, and a wish of saying more that might lead to the mention of her, had he dared.
dickens|We had loin of pork for dinner, and greens grown on the estate; and I nodded at the Aged with a good intention whenever I failed to do it drowsily.
dickens|Words cannot state the amount of aggravation and injury wreaked upon me by Trabbs boy, when passing abreast of me, he pulled up his shirtcollar, twined his sidehair, stuck an arm akimbo, and smirked extravagantly by, wriggling his elbows and body, and drawling to his attendants, Dont know yah, dont know yah, pon my soul dont know yah!
austen|do anything rather than marry without affection.
austen|Mary, however, continued to console herself with such kind of moral extractions from the evil before them.
austen|It could not be otherwise.
dickens|Six months, a year!
dickens|Of course I broke down there and of course Herbert, beyond seizing a warm grip of my hand, pretended not to know it.
dickens|Now what do you think, Mr Cruncher, said Miss Pross, whose agitation was so great that she could hardly speak, or stand, or move, or live what do you think of our not starting from this courtyard?
austen|Miss Bingley saw all this likewise; and, in the imprudence of anger, took the first opportunity of saying, with sneering civility  Pray, Miss Eliza, are not the shire Militia removed from Meryton?
dickens|Joe recited this couplet with such manifest pride and careful perspicuity, that I asked him if he had made it himself.
austen|The arrival of letters was the grand object of every mornings impatience.
dickens|Now are you content?
dickens|I know it, Herbert, said I, with my head still turned away, but I cant help it.
austen|Elton is a very good sort of man, and a very respectable vicar of Highbury, but not at all likely to make an imprudent match.
dickens|Who praised me when I learnt my lesson?
austen|It is only evident that Miss Bingley does not mean that he should.
dickens|Look at his watchchain.
austen|I undertake the commission.
austen|When the suggestions of hope, however, which must follow here, presented themselves, she could not presume to indulge them.
austen|Increase!
dickens|I never saw this room before, I remarked; but there used to be no Porter here.
austen|It seemed to him a very illjudged measure.
austen|He took her hand;whether she had not herself made the first motion, she could not sayshe might, perhaps, have rather offered itbut he took her hand, pressed it, and certainly was on the point of carrying it to his lipswhen, from some fancy or other, he suddenly let it go.
austen|he has some friends, though perhaps not so many as he deserves.
austen|The tumult of her mind, was now painfully great.
dickens|Nor I.
austen|But one morningI forget exactly the daybut perhaps it was the Tuesday or Wednesday before that evening, he wanted to make a memorandum in his pocketbook; it was about sprucebeer.
dickens|You are in a countinghouse, you know, and you look about you.
austen|If you believed it impossible to be true, said Elizabeth, colouring with astonishment and disdain, I wonder you took the trouble of coming so far.
austen|I never can be blameless.
dickens|Wemmick stood with his watch in his hand until the moment was come for him to take the redhot poker from the Aged, and repair to the battery.
austen|You would not have little Henry cut out from Donwell?
dickens|For the rest, the Old Bailey was famous as a kind of deadly innyard, from which pale travellers set out continually, in carts and coaches, on a violent passage into the other world traversing some two miles and a half of public street and road, and shaming few good citizens, if any.
austen|These letters were but the vehicle for gallantry and trick.
dickens|I acted in the capacity of backer, or bestman, to the bridegroom; while a little limp pewopener in a soft bonnet like a babys, made a feint of being the bosom friend of Miss Skiffins.
dickens|cried Joe, opening his blue eyes wide, what a scholar you are!
austen|Mr Wickham began the subject himself.
dickens|I asked, starting; I dont know you.
dickens|But it is, as I have told you, next to impossible.
dickens|I had leisure to entertain the retort in my mind, while he slowly lifted his heavy glance from the pavement, up my legs and arms, to my face.
austen|Now will be the time.
dickens|To be sure, it was a deserted place, down to the pigeonhouse in the breweryyard, which had been blown crooked on its pole by some high wind, and would have made the pigeons think themselves at sea, if there had been any pigeons there to be rocked by it.
dickens|Unsettled weather, a long journey, uncertain means of travelling, a disorganised country, a city that may not be even safe for you.
austen|I saw Jane Fairfax and conversed with her, with admiration and pleasure alwaysbut with no thought beyond.
austen|While settling this point, she was suddenly roused by the sound of the doorbell, and her spirits were a little fluttered by the idea of its being Colonel Fitzwilliam himself, who had once before called late in the evening, and might now come to inquire particularly after her.
dickens|All right, John; all right!
dickens|You shall know directly.
dickens|Dont recall her to herself, he said, softly, to the latter, she is better so.
dickens|But its not worth your while to apostrophise me, or the air, about it; what you want to do, you do.
austen|She seemed bent on giving no real insight into Mr Dixons character, or her own value for his company, or opinion of the suitableness of the match.
austen|I am therefore by no means discouraged by what you have just said, and shall hope to lead you to the altar ere long.
austen|I have told Miss Bennet several times, that she will never play really well unless she practises more; and though Mrs Collins has no instrument, she is very welcome, as I have often told her, to come to Rosings every day, and play on the pianoforte in Mrs Jenkinsons room.
austen|It is a nice long walk, and Mr Darcy has never seen the view.
austen|It was a large, well proportioned room, handsomely fitted up.
austen|If my children are silly, I must hope to be always sensible of it.
austen|Here is his answer, if you like to see it.
austen|This is an evening of wonders, indeed!
austen|Emma could not speak the name of Dixon without a little blush.
dickens|Joe mentioned it now, and the strange man called him by it.
austen|Her heart had been long growing kinder towards Jane; and this picture of her present sufferings acted as a cure of every former ungenerous suspicion, and left her nothing but pity; and the remembrance of the less just and less gentle sensations of the past, obliged her to admit that Jane might very naturally resolve on seeing Mrs Cole or any other steady friend, when she might not bear to see herself.
austen|But be it sweetness or be it stupidity in herquickness of friendship, or dulness of feelingthere was one person, I think, who must have felt it Miss Fairfax herself.
dickens|Men and women danced together, women danced together, men danced together, as hazard had brought them together.
dickens|The Echoes rarely answered to the actual tread of Sydney Carton.
austen|Oh!
austen|That is capital, added her sister, and they both laughed heartily.
austen|They were interrupted by the bustle of Mr Weston calling on every body to begin dancing again.
dickens|Here, in a corner my indentures were duly signed and attested, and I was bound; Mr Pumblechook holding me all the while as if we had looked in on our way to the scaffold, to have those little preliminaries disposed of.
dickens|Come, come!
dickens|They are the secrets I have mentioned.
dickens|Here is my husband!
dickens|It had been established voluntarily some time ago, among the more thorough patriots; but, was now law for everybody.
austen|Perry says that colds have been very general, but not so heavy as he has very often known them in November.
dickens|He was younger than me, but hed got craft, and hed got learning, and he overmatched me five hundred times told and no mercy.
austen|He was the brother of her friends, and he took pains to please her; and altogether, having seen nobody better that must have been his great assistant she might not, while she was at AbbeyMill, find him disagreeable.
dickens|She manifested the greatest anxiety to be on good terms with him, was evidently much pleased by his being at length produced, and motioned that she would have him given something to drink.
austen|Wickham passed all his youth there, you know.
dickens|said my convict, disdainfully.
dickens|It was, in effect, that the cook had mislaid the beef.
austen|Emma wished to go to work directly, and therefore produced the portfolio containing her various attempts at portraits, for not one of them had ever been finished, that they might decide together on the best size for Harriet.
dickens|She was sitting, I answered, in a black velvet coach.
austen|With them he is remarkably agreeable.
dickens|Yes, Joe; but what I wanted to say, was, that as we are rather slack just now, if you would give me a halfholiday tomorrow, I think I would go uptown and make a call on Miss EstHavisham.
austen|They will be so near their own stable.
dickens|And I should be false and base if I did not tell you, whether it is acceptable to you or no, and whether you are inclined to give credence to it or no, that you deeply wrong both Mr Matthew Pocket and his son Herbert, if you suppose them to be otherwise than generous, upright, open, and incapable of anything designing or mean.
dickens|Hear me, Pip!
austen|I could not bear it for Emma!
dickens|Estella, said I, turning to her now, and trying to command my trembling voice, you know I love you.
austen|Wont it, Kitty?
austen|Lydia was Lydia still; untamed, unabashed, wild, noisy, and fearless.
dickens|He will perish there is no real hope, echoed Carton.
austen|In that respect his friend had greatly the advantage.
dickens|I neither want any thanks, nor merit any, was the careless rejoinder.
dickens|It was curious.
austen|He was quite delighted.
dickens|I am quite glad you are at home; for these hurries and forebodings by which I have been surrounded all day long, have made me nervous without reason.
dickens|Joe patted the coverlet on my shoulder with his great good hand, and said, in what I thought a husky voice, Good night!
dickens|With that, he went upon his knees, and began to flay his victim; who, on the first stocking coming off, would certainly have fallen over backward with his chair, but for there being no room to fall anyhow.
dickens|Spare no detail.
austen|I am always well, you know.
austen|Yes I have had a letter from him by express.
austen|Is there one among the sex, who would not protest against such a weakness as a second proposal to the same woman?
dickens|Dear me!
austen|Its banks were neither formal nor falsely adorned.
dickens|I have never shown any weakness that I can charge myself with.
austen|The carriagewe had disappointments about the carriage;one morning, I remember, he came to me quite in despair.
dickens|I am going to Richmond, she told me.
austen|There was only Harriet, who seemed not in spirits herself, fagged, and very willing to be silent; and Emma felt the tears running down her cheeks almost all the way home, without being at any trouble to check them, extraordinary as they were.
dickens|And the mere sight of the torment, with his fishy eyes and mouth open, his sandy hair inquisitively on end, and his waistcoat heaving with windy arithmetic, made me vicious in my reticence.
dickens|Bless your soul and body, no, answered Wemmick, very drily.
austen|Its windows opening to the ground, admitted a most refreshing view of the high woody hills behind the house, and of the beautiful oaks and Spanish chestnuts which were scattered over the intermediate lawn.
austen|But I can guess how it was; everybody says that he is eat up with pride, and I dare say he had heard somehow that Mrs Long does not keep a carriage, and had come to the ball in a hack chaise.
dickens|I know better.
dickens|Before putting his late friend on his shelf again, Wemmick touched the largest of his mourning rings and said, Sent out to buy it for me, only the day before.
dickens|Ay!
dickens|Having said it, he passed behind the little counter, and stood with his hand on the back of his wifes chair, looking over that barrier at the person to whom they were both opposed, and whom either of them would have shot with the greatest satisfaction.
austen|I did not know a word of it till it was all settled.
dickens|Dye hear?
dickens|How can it be!
dickens|He was so very demonstrative herein, that he might have been suspected perhaps was, by the dark eyes that looked contemptuously at him out of Madame Defarges head of having his small individual fears for his own personal safety, every hour in the day.
austen|Darcy was not of a disposition in which happiness overflows in mirth; and Elizabeth, agitated and confused, rather knew that she was happy than felt herself to be so; for, besides the immediate embarrassment, there were other evils before her.
dickens|And then, dear boy, it was a recompense to me, lookee here, to know in secret that I was making a gentleman.
austen|She felt that, in quitting Donwell, he must be sacrificing a great deal of independence of hours and habits; that in living constantly with her father, and in no house of his own, there would be much, very much, to be borne with.
dickens|Pray let there be no mistake about it.
dickens|It was the year of Our Lord one thousand seven hundred and seventyfive.
austen|No, indeed I do not.
dickens|But what did I think?
austen|My brother and the gentlemen are to dine with the officers.
austen|The hall, the diningroom, and all its furniture, were examined and praised; and his commendation of everything would have touched Mrs Bennets heart, but for the mortifying supposition of his viewing it all as his own future property.
austen|Though she did not feel the first intelligence as she might have done the day before, or an hour before, its interest soon increased; and before their first conversation was over, she had talked herself into all the sensations of curiosity, wonder and regret, pain and pleasure, as to this fortunate Miss Hawkins, which could conduce to place the Martins under proper subordination in her fancy.
austen|Oh!
austen|And your assurance of it, I suppose, carried immediate conviction to him.
dickens|Always seems to me, said Wemmick, as if he had set a mantrap and was watching it.
dickens|As they stood side by side near the carriage door, I also observed that they both looked of about my own age, or rather younger, and that they were greatly alike, in stature, manner, voice, and as far as I could see face too.
austen|But then I have always supposed it to be my own faultbecause I will not take the trouble of practising.
austen|Much could not be hoped from the traffic of even the busiest part of Highbury;Mr Perry walking hastily by, Mr William Cox letting himself in at the officedoor, Mr Coles carriagehorses returning from exercise, or a stray letterboy on an obstinate mule, were the liveliest objects she could presume to expect; and when her eyes fell only on the butcher with his tray, a tidy old woman travelling homewards from shop with her full basket, two curs quarrelling over a dirty bone, and a string of dawdling children round the bakers little bowwindow eyeing the gingerbread, she knew she had no reason to complain, and was amused enough; quite enough still to stand at the door.
dickens|But as I was used to sit beside Joe whenever I entered that place of resort, I said No, thank you, sir, and fell into the space Joe made for me on the opposite settle.
austen|And, besides, I must give you a hint, Frank; any want of attention to her here should be carefully avoided.
austen|Bingley.
dickens|Having despatched The Avenger to the coffeehouse for an addition to the dinner, I felt that I must open my breast that very evening to my friend and chum.
dickens|I said, or tried to say, that I was much obliged to him for his recommendation  No, my young friend!
austen|This was a stroke of civility for which she was quite unprepared; and she could hardly suppress a smile at his being now seeking the acquaintance of some of those very people against whom his pride had revolted in his offer to herself.
dickens|She might think you wanted something,expected something of her.
austen|No, no,he gravely replied.
dickens|O!
austen|The party was to be our brother and sister, Henry, Johnand Miss Smith.
dickens|If you want me to guess, you must ask me to dinner.
dickens|rejoined Miss Pross; you were a bachelor in your cradle.
dickens|Cannon, muskets, fire and smoke; but, still the deep ditch, the single drawbridge, the massive stone walls, and the eight great towers.
dickens|Whatever he put on, became him less it dismally seemed to me than what he had worn before.
dickens|She is five years younger than I, and she lives in a farmers house in the south country.
dickens|But it always looks up, from a distance, at the prison on the crag; and in the evening, when the work of the day is achieved and it assembles to gossip at the fountain, all faces are turned towards the prison.
dickens|In another minute we were outside the gate, and it was locked, and Estella was gone.
dickens|Drummle and I then sat snorting at one another for an hour, while the Grove engaged in indiscriminate contradiction, and finally the promotion of good feeling was declared to have gone ahead at an amazing rate.
dickens|Yes, returned Defarge.
austen|Elizabeth could not but look surprised.
dickens|Wouldnt say it to anybody but yourself, he answered.
dickens|You thinks Custum Us, Jack?
austen|Surry is the garden of England.
austen|The picturesque would be spoilt by admitting a fourth.
austen|If you need farther explanation, I have the honour, my dear madam, of being your husbands son, and the advantage of inheriting a disposition to hope for good, which no inheritance of houses or lands can ever equal the value of.
dickens|The garden was too overgrown and rank for walking in with ease, and after we had made the round of it twice or thrice, we came out again into the brewery yard.
dickens|Silence in the court!
austen|Never, madam, cried he, affronted in his turn never, I assure you.
austen|This is what we all feel.
dickens|By strange stern ways, and through much staining blood, those feet had come to meet that water.
dickens|When the day came round for my return to the scene of the deed of violence, my terrors reached their height.
austen|Till now that she was threatened with its loss, Emma had never known how much of her happiness depended on being first with Mr Knightley, first in interest and affection.
dickens|Neither, beyond the blowing out of the candle,which stood on a table between the door and my sister, and was behind her when she stood facing the fire and was struck,was there any disarrangement of the kitchen, excepting such as she herself had made, in falling and bleeding.
austen|After discharging his conscience on that head, he proceeded to inform them, with many rapturous expressions, of his happiness in having obtained the affection of their amiable neighbour, Miss Lucas, and then explained that it was merely with the view of enjoying her society that he had been so ready to close with their kind wish of seeing him again at Longbourn, whither he hoped to be able to return on Monday fortnight; for Lady Catherine, he added, so heartily approved his marriage, that she wished it to take place as soon as possible, which he trusted would be an unanswerable argument with his amiable Charlotte to name an early day for making him the happiest of men.
dickens|Waking, I never lost that fear.
dickens|His constant height is of a piece with his immense abilities.
austen|He was satisfied of there being no present danger in returning home, but no assurances could convince him that it was safe to stay; and while the others were variously urging and recommending, Mr Knightley and Emma settled it in a few brief sentences thus  Your father will not be easy; why do not you go?
austen|Elizabeth accepted their company, and the three young ladies set off together.
dickens|Of course I know that.
dickens|Arrested for all that.
dickens|said a last God bless you!
dickens|There is no confusion or failure in my memory; it can recall, and could detail, every word that was ever spoken between me and those brothers.
austen|She really looked almost wild.
austen|But the misfortune of speaking with bitterness is a most natural consequence of the prejudices I had been encouraging.
dickens|The great grindstone, Earth, had turned when Mr Lorry looked out again, and the sun was red on the courtyard.
austen|The disguise, equivocation, mystery, so hateful to her to practise, might soon be over.
dickens|Good night, sir.
austen|Within half an hour, he had passed from a thoroughly distressed state of mind, to something so like perfect happiness, that it could bear no other name.
austen|Mr Knightley was then obliged to say that he should be glad to see him; and Mr Weston engaged to lose no time in writing, and spare no arguments to induce him to come.
dickens|Steady it again, and write what I shall dictate.
dickens|A fellow like our friend the Spider, answered Mr Jaggers, either beats or cringes.
dickens|Ill speak in half a minute.
dickens|Good indeed!
austen|Mr Bennet and his daughters saw all the advantages of Wickhams removal from the shire as clearly as Mr Gardiner could do.
dickens|Her father privately married againhis cook, I rather think.
dickens|Thank you.
austen|And so then, in my nonsense, I could not help making a treasure of itso I put it by never to be used, and looked at it now and then as a great treat.
austen|I see no probability in it, unless you have any better foundation than what you mention.
austen|She was in the adjoining chamber while she still spoke, and opening the casement there, immediately called Mr Knightleys attention, and every syllable of their conversation was as distinctly heard by the others, as if it had passed within the same apartment.
austen|But, if I were you, I would stand by the nephew.
austen|This is meeting quite in fairyland!
dickens|But I suppose there is a shock of regret which may exist without much tenderness.
austen|She looked at Jane, to see how she bore it; but Jane was very composedly talking to Bingley.
dickens|I fancied that I could detect in his manner a consciousness of this, and a purpose of always holding her in suspense.
austen|It had given him a disgust to his business, and to his residence in a small market town; and, in quitting them both, he had removed with his family to a house about a mile from Meryton, denominated from that period Lucas Lodge, where he could think with pleasure of his own importance, and, unshackled by business, occupy himself solely in being civil to all the world.
austen|And it always ended in Kitty, a fair but frozen maid.
dickens|She gave me a triumphant glance in passing me, as if she rejoiced that my hands were so coarse and my boots were so thick, and she opened the gate, and stood holding it.
dickens|See!
austen|A bride, you know, must appear like a bride, but my natural taste is all for simplicity; a simple style of dress is so infinitely preferable to finery.
dickens|Much of that wouldnt do for you, Jerry!
austen|But the plan which had arisen on the sacrifice of this, he trusted his dearest Emma would not find in any respect objectionable; it was, that he should be received at Hartfield; that so long as her fathers happinessin other words, his liferequired Hartfield to continue her home, it should be his likewise.
austen|Very much.
austen|I dont know.
dickens|My blood!
austen|The dinner too in its turn was highly admired; and he begged to know to which of his fair cousins the excellency of its cooking was owing.
dickens|Early in the morning, the rouleau of gold was left at my door in a little box, with my name on the outside.
austen|Especially when one of those two is such a fanciful, troublesome creature!
dickens|I am afraid it is scarcely necessary for my fathers son to remark that my fathers establishment is not particularly brilliant in its housekeeping.
dickens|like and order to dogs,again saw the wicked Noahs Ark lying out on the black water.
austen|The postoffice has a great charm at one period of our lives.
austen|Elizabeth could hardly help smiling as she assured her that had not been the case.
dickens|You have seen the worst of her agitation.
austen|Do you remember the morning spent at Donwell?
dickens|I tell it, fur you to know as that there hunted dunghill dog wot you kep life in, got his head so high that he could make a gentleman,and, Pip, youre him!
austen|Of neither Darcy nor Wickham could she think without feeling she had been blind, partial, prejudiced, absurd.
austen|could not have supposed any thing!
austen|And I wish my collection were larger for your benefit and my own credit; but I am an idle fellow, and though I have not many, I have more than I ever looked into.
dickens|And you have all tomorrow, Tuesday, to rest in, said Herbert.
dickens|Wouldnt her child?
dickens|said I.
dickens|He was again alone in his room of the previous night, considering what to do next, when he heard a foot upon the stair.
dickens|So the pocketbook which had once been in my hands passed into the officers.
dickens|Quite, said I.
dickens|I were, said Joe, with emphasis and solemnity.
austen|For heavens sake, madam, speak lower.
dickens|At length he prolonged his remark into Pip, I do assure you this is asTONishing!
austen|I assure you, Miss Woodhouse, it is very delightful to me, to be reminded of a place I am so extremely partial to as Maple Grove.
dickens|I believe your intention is to perpetuate, and not to weaken, the ties between me and my other and far dearer self.
austen|Be observant of him.
dickens|Shouldering one another to get next at the sharpeningstone, were men stripped to the waist, with the stain all over their limbs and bodies; men in all sorts of rags, with the stain upon those rags; men devilishly set off with spoils of womens lace and silk and ribbon, with the stain dyeing those trifles through and through.
austen|You see how continually we are engaged there.
austen|Exactly soThe shape of the eye and the lines about the mouthI have not a doubt of your success.
dickens|Mr Lorry nodded his consent.
dickens|So would you.
dickens|Not seeing with precision what was very hard, Mr Lorry shook his head; using that important part of himself as a sort of fairy cloak that would fit anything.
austen|When the gentlemen rose to go away, Mrs Bennet was mindful of her intended civility, and they were invited and engaged to dine at Longbourn in a few days time.
austen|I am not one of those who have witty things at every bodys service.
austen|I know what worthy people they are.
austen|Mr Knightley promises to give up his claim this Christmasthough you know it is longer since they were with him, than with us.
austen|My dear, dear Lydia!
dickens|and would count up to twelve, and say, Hush!
dickens|Where should we be going, but home?
austen|If he had come at Christmas he could not have staid three days; I was always glad he did not come at Christmas; now we are going to have just the right weather for him, fine, dry, settled weather.
austen|Your resolution, or rather your expectation of never marrying, results from an idea that the person whom you might prefer, would be too greatly your superior in situation to think of you.
dickens|Your preparations have been completed for some days, to return to England.
austen|Certainly, replied Elizabeththere are such people, but I hope I am not one of them.
austen|Darcy mentioned his letter.
austen|If he had been anxious for secrecy, he would not have left the paper while I was by; but he rather pushed it towards me than towards you.
austen|She who could do any thing in Highbury!
dickens|I suppose you will be glad of variety and admiration?
austen|The latter was much more agreeable than his companion expected.
dickens|Finding that he could not see us very well from where he sat, he got up, and threw one leg over the back of a chair and leaned upon it; thus having one foot on the seat of the chair, and one foot on the ground.
austen|One accompaniment to her song took her agreeably by surprizea second, slightly but correctly taken by Frank Churchill.
austen|How can you talk so?
dickens|This time, a pair of haggard eyes had looked at the questioner, before the face had dropped again.
dickens|And even then it would not leave him, but followed him upstairs with a bump on every stair, scrambled into bed with him, and bumped down, dead and heavy, on his breast when he fell asleep.
dickens|Take all the praise, take all the blame; take all the success, take all the failure; in short, take me.
austen|She had seemed more sensible of Mr Eltons being to stoop in marrying her, than she now seemed of Mr Knightleys.
dickens|The time has not gone by.
dickens|The rhapsody welled up within me, like blood from an inward wound, and gushed out.
dickens|It would cost nothing to lay down if it were not.
austen|Elizabeth was not surprised at it, as Jane had written the direction remarkably ill.
dickens|As I looked round at them, and at the pale gloom they made, and at the stopped clock, and at the withered articles of bridal dress upon the table and the ground, and at her own awful figure with its ghostly reflection thrown large by the fire upon the ceiling and the wall, I saw in everything the construction that my mind had come to, repeated and thrown back to me.
dickens|A struggle was evidently in his face; a struggle with that occasional look which had a tendency in it to dark doubt and dread.
austen|You may depend upon it, Madam, said Miss Bingley, with cold civility, that Miss Bennet will receive every possible attention while she remains with us.
dickens|said I.
dickens|Bless you, Mr Cruncher!
dickens|Is a countinghouse profitable?
austen|She was less handsome than her brother; but there was sense and good humour in her face, and her manners were perfectly unassuming and gentle.
austen|It is encouraging people to marry if you make so much of them.
austen|There was deep consciousness about him, and he found it easier to meet her eye than her friends.
austen|Lady Catherines great attentions to Mrs Collins you have been a daily witness of; and altogether I trust it does not appear that your friend has drawn an unfortunatebut on this point it will be as well to be silent.
austen|But it is fortunate, thought she, that I have something to wish for.
austen|Mr Knightleys eyes had preceded Miss Batess in a glance at Jane.
austen|If you are a good girl for the next ten years, I will take you to a review at the end of them.
austen|I never heard you speak ill of a human being in your life.
austen|To Mr and Mrs Gardiner he was scarcely a less interesting personage than to herself.
dickens|Two men had entered separately, and had been about to order drink, when, catching sight of that novelty, they faltered, made a pretence of looking about as if for some friend who was not there, and went away.
austen|I will answer for it, that mine thinks herself full as clever, and would spurn any bodys assistance.
dickens|rendered it necessary that I should go to Paris, there to communicate with a gentleman of the Bank, so good as to be despatched to Paris for the purpose.
austen|What she was, must be uncertain; but who she was, might be found out; and setting aside the 10,000 l.
austen|I have no fears at all for myself; and I should have no scruples of staying as late as Mrs Weston, but on your account.
dickens|The privilege of calling her by her name and hearing her call me by mine became, under the circumstances an aggravation of my trials; and while I think it likely that it almost maddened her other lovers, I know too certainly that it almost maddened me.
austen|Were it known to the rest of my family, I should not have merely my own gratitude to express.
dickens|He always resolutely answered Nothing can happen to him without my knowledge, and I know that I can save him, Lucie.
austen|Jane said so.
dickens|Rounding his mouth and both his eyes, as he stepped backward from the table, the waiter shifted his napkin from his right arm to his left, dropped into a comfortable attitude, and stood surveying the guest while he ate and drank, as from an observatory or watchtower.
austen|The children, two girls of six and eight years old, and two younger boys, were to be left under the particular care of their cousin Jane, who was the general favourite, and whose steady sense and sweetness of temper exactly adapted her for attending to them in every wayteaching them, playing with them, and loving them.
austen|Nothing of the past was recollected with pain; and Lydia led voluntarily to subjects which her sisters would not have alluded to for the world.
dickens|Relieved as his mind reverted to that, he answered  Your confidence in me ought to be returned with full confidence on my part.
austen|In addition to all the rest, there had been the shock of finding her so very unwell, which he had had no previous suspicion ofand there was every appearance of his having been feeling a great deal.
austen|If you mention my name at the Bell, you will be attended to.
austen|Something really important seemed announced by his looks; but, as her friend was well, she endeavoured not to be uneasy, and settling it with her father, that she would take her walk now, she and Mr Weston were soon out of the house together and on their way at a quick pace for Randalls.
dickens|I tell thee it is always advancing.
dickens|The other, always working and working his dry lips and turning his eyes restlessly about him far and near, did at last turn them for a moment on the speaker, with the words, You are not much to look at, and with a halftaunting glance at the bound hands.
austen|Mr Collins, said she, speaks highly both of Lady Catherine and her daughter; but from some particulars that he has related of her ladyship, I suspect his gratitude misleads him, and that in spite of her being his patroness, she is an arrogant, conceited woman.
dickens|Not the exact words!
dickens|It must be forty feet high, said they, grimly; and never moved.
dickens|Come in, come in!
dickens|But Joe, taking it up carefully with both hands, like a birdsnest with eggs in it, wouldnt hear of parting with that piece of property, and persisted in standing talking over it in a most uncomfortable way.
dickens|But Ill tell you one thing, Mr Waldengarver, said the man who was on his knees, in which youre out in your reading.
dickens|You assumed some name, I suppose, on board ship?
dickens|Why, look at you all!
austen|Yes; Jane says she is sure they will; but yet, this is such a situation as she cannot feel herself justified in declining.
austen|with a deep sigh, that he wished I might find as much happiness in the marriage state as he had done.
dickens|Do you particularly like the man?
dickens|What have I done!
austen|They might advance rapidly if they would, however; they must advance somehow or other whether they would or no.
austen|But, in my opinion, it is a paltry device, a very mean art.
austen|Here you are in your own family.
austen|So very kind!
austen|I think we do want a larger council.
austen|A man in distressed circumstances has not time for all those elegant decorums which other people may observe.
austen|Let us be discreetquite on our good behaviour.
dickens|A tremulous uncertainty of the action of all her limbs soon became a part of her regular state, and afterwards, at intervals of two or three months, she would often put her hands to her head, and would then remain for about a week at a time in some gloomy aberration of mind.
austen|Elizabeths spirits were so high on this occasion, that though she did not often speak unnecessarily to Mr Collins, she could not help asking him whether he intended to accept Mr Bingleys invitation, and if he did, whether he would think it proper to join in the evenings amusement; and she was rather surprised to find that he entertained no scruple whatever on that head, and was very far from dreading a rebuke either from the Archbishop, or Lady Catherine de Bourgh, by venturing to dance.
dickens|returned Carton, stamping his foot; have I sworn by no solemn vow already, to go through with this, that you waste the precious moments now?
austen|Mr Collins no sooner saw the two girls than he began to congratulate them on their good fortune, which Charlotte explained by letting them know that the whole party was asked to dine at Rosings the next day.
austen|If he had been wavering before as to what he should do, which had often seemed likely, the advice and entreaty of so near a relation might settle every doubt, and determine him at once to be as happy as dignity unblemished could make him.
dickens|Is it Jerry?
dickens|What was it you said to me?
dickens|Everybody, myself excepted, said no, with confidence.
austen|This, madam, is a faithful narrative of every event in which we have been concerned together; and if you do not absolutely reject it as false, you will, I hope, acquit me henceforth of cruelty towards Mr Wickham.
dickens|The mender of roads looked through rather than at the low ceiling, and pointed as if he saw the gallows somewhere in the sky.
dickens|My sister, sir,Mrs Joe Gargery,wife of Joe Gargery, the blacksmith, sir.
austen|They met with the utmost friendliness.
dickens|In London, he had expected neither to walk on pavements of gold, nor to lie on beds of roses; if he had had any such exalted expectation, he would not have prospered.
austen|In a few minutes, Mrs Bennet halfopened the door and called out  Lizzy, my dear, I want to speak with you.
dickens|This was horrible, and gave me a sickening idea of London; the more so as the Lord Chief Justices proprietor wore from his hat down to his boots and up again to his pockethandkerchief inclusive mildewed clothes which had evidently not belonged to him originally, and which I took it into my head he had bought cheap of the executioner.
austen|He could be no judge, however, of the evil he was holding cheap.
austen|I shall see you at the Abbey tomorrow morning I hope, and then we will look them over, and you shall give me your opinion.
dickens|And this way I held steady afore my mind that I would for certain come one day and see my boy, and make myself known to him, on his own ground.
austen|What is to be done?
dickens|You have been very good to me, and I owe everything to you.
dickens|As before, he repeated, Out?
dickens|Do you know, Handel, he improves?
austen|She then took a large house in Edwardstreet, and has since maintained herself by letting lodgings.
dickens|The supper was excellent; and though the Castle was rather subject to dryrot insomuch that it tasted like a bad nut, and though the pig might have been farther off, I was heartily pleased with my whole entertainment.
austen|She could not have believed it possible that the taste or the pride of Miss Fairfax could endure such society and friendship as the Vicarage had to offer.
dickens|said he, folding his arms again, Old Orlicks a going to tell you somethink.
dickens|She had drawn close to him, in her dread of the scene, and in her pity for the prisoner.
austen|His air and voice recovered their usual briskness he shook her heartily and gratefully by the hand, and entered on the subject in a manner to prove, that he now only wanted time and persuasion to think the engagement no very bad thing.
dickens|Then, they moved away on their hands and knees.
dickens|You must let me put you in a room at the back here.
dickens|The day after tomorrow, if you please.
austen|Elizabeth smiled at the recollection of all that she had heard of its inhabitants.
austen|I cannot let you continue in your error; and yet, perhaps, since my manners gave such an impression, I have as much reason to be ashamed of confessing that I never have been at all attached to the person we are speaking of, as it might be natural for a woman to feel in confessing exactly the reverse.
austen|He had a great deal to say in return, and very entertainingly; but Emmas feelings were chiefly with Jane, in the argument; and on leaving Randalls, and falling naturally into a comparison of the two men, she felt, that pleased as she had been to see Frank Churchill, and really regarding him as she did with friendship, she had never been more sensible of Mr Knightleys high superiority of character.
austen|But before they heard again from Mr Gardiner, a letter arrived for their father, from a different quarter, from Mr Collins; which, as Jane had received directions to open all that came for him in his absence, she accordingly read; and Elizabeth, who knew what curiosities his letters always were, looked over her, and read it likewise.
austen|It was an animating subject, and Mrs Bennet seemed incapable of fatigue while enumerating the advantages of the match.
dickens|She was thrown into a transport by the tidings Mr Lorry gave her of her husband, and clasped the hand that delivered his notelittle thinking what it had been doing near him in the night, and might, but for a chance, have done to him.
dickens|I was so unwilling to see the look again, that I made no remonstrance against this tone.
austen|When she came to that part of the letter in which her family were mentioned in terms of such mortifying, yet merited reproach, her sense of shame was severe.
dickens|That, he had been the prisoners friend, but, at once in an auspicious and an evil hour detecting his infamy, had resolved to immolate the traitor he could no longer cherish in his bosom, on the sacred altar of his country.
dickens|State your reason.
austen|It would amuse away the difficulties of her part, and lessen the irksomeness of Miss Smiths.
dickens|A man with the gout in his right handand everywhere elsecant expect to get through a Double Gloucester without hurting himself.
dickens|Too rul loo rul      Too rul loo rul  still, in my desire to be wiser, I got this composition by heart with the utmost gravity; nor do I recollect that I questioned its merit, except that I thought as I still do the amount of Too rul somewhat in excess of the poetry.
dickens|She acknowledged their homage by bending her head, and giving them a quick look.
dickens|I saw in this that I, too, was tormented by a perversion of ingenuity, even while the prize was reserved for me.
austen|Cannot you invent a few hardships for yourself, and be contented to stay?
dickens|French.
dickens|His name?
dickens|Kill him!
dickens|I fancy, said Estella, shrinking that must be a curious place.
austen|Quite out of the question, quite out of the question, he replied;but you must often wish it, I am sure.
dickens|Whereas, to this wretched hour I am ignorant of both.
dickens|Defarge looked gloomily at his wife, and gave no other answer than a gruff sound of acquiescence.
dickens|It would seem to be always the same question, for, it is always followed by a press of people towards the third cart.
austen|Mr Collins was eloquent in her praise.
austen|It was not all settled before Monday as soon as it was, the express was sent off to Longbourn.
dickens|Let your behavior here be a credit unto them which brought you up by hand!
austen|In essentials, I believe, he is very much what he ever was.
austen|I assure you, Jane Fairfax is a very delightful character, and interests me more than I can express.
dickens|I infer, glancing at his hands again, in the resumption of some old pursuit connected with the shock?
austen|Exquisite, quite exquisite!
austen|I do not mean to reflect upon the good intentions of either Mr Dixon or Miss Fairfax, but I cannot help suspecting either that, after making his proposals to her friend, he had the misfortune to fall in love with her, or that he became conscious of a little attachment on her side.
dickens|I took the opportunity of her being from home, to beg to speak to you.
dickens|What else can be the consequence, said Herbert, in explanation, if he will cut the cheese?
dickens|I relinquished the intention he had detected, for I knew him!
dickens|Why, from you.
dickens|No, I would not.
dickens|How does she use you, Pip; how does she use you?
dickens|Thank you, said the Marquisvery sweetly indeed.
austen|But it is too far, indeed it is, to be walking quite alone.
austen|Nothing wrong in him escaped her.
austen|You would not think it to look at him, but he is biliousMr Cole is very bilious.
dickens|The scene was Mr Crunchers private lodging in Hangingswordalley, Whitefriars the time, halfpast seven of the clock on a windy March morning, Anno Domini seventeen hundred and eighty.
austen|She laughed because she was disappointed; and though she liked him for his attentions, and thought them all, whether in friendship, admiration, or playfulness, extremely judicious, they were not winning back her heart.
dickens|And to this hour I have not the faintest notion what he meant, or what joke he thought I had made.
dickens|With the same intention, he drew the key across it, three or four times, before he put it clumsily into the lock, and turned it as heavily as he could.
dickens|As to altering my way of living by enlarging my expenses, I put it to him whether in our present unsettled and difficult circumstances, it would not be simply ridiculous, if it were no worse?
dickens|He had escaped when he was made half wild by me and my murderous intentions; and his punishment was light.
dickens|Trabbs boyTrabbs overgrown young man nowwent before us with a lantern, which was the light I had seen come in at the door.
austen|What has Mr Frank Churchill done, to make you suppose him such an unnatural creature?
austen|Oh!
dickens|The English customer paid for what he had had, perplexedly counted his change, and asked, as a stranger, to be directed towards the National Palace.
austen|Emma wondered whether the same suspicion of what might be expected from their knowing each other, which had taken strong possession of her mind, had ever crossed his; and whether his compliments were to be considered as marks of acquiescence, or proofs of defiance.
dickens|You know all the men of this part of the country.
dickens|When they arrived at the gateway where he had paused in the dark not many hours before, to picture to himself on which of the rough stones of the street her feet had trodden, he lifted her again, and carried her up the staircase to their rooms.
austen|I never heard any county but Surry called so.
dickens|If she should ever tell me that you are essential to her perfect happiness, I will give her to you.
dickens|I think she is very pretty.
dickens|No garret, no shoemaking, no One Hundred and Five, North Tower, now!
austen|said Mrs Weston, have not you finished it yet?
austen|Lydias thoughtlessness first betrayed to me that you had been concerned in the matter; and, of course, I could not rest till I knew the particulars.
austen|But there is one of her sisters sitting down just behind you, who is very pretty, and I dare say very agreeable.
austen|They seem to satisfy every body else.
dickens|Ay, ay, old chap!
dickens|S.
dickens|The light in the guardhouse, half derived from the waning oillamps of the night, and half from the overcast day, was in a correspondingly uncertain condition.
austen|Yesentirely her own doing, entirely her own choice; and Colonel and Mrs Campbell think she does quite right, just what they should recommend; and indeed they particularly wish her to try her native air, as she has not been quite so well as usual lately.
austen|It was his duty.
austen|It regarded a supperroom.
dickens|Do you go with me to the Bank?
austen|Whilst wandering on in this slow manner, they were again surprised, and Elizabeths astonishment was quite equal to what it had been at first, by the sight of Mr Darcy approaching them, and at no great distance.
austen|Miss Smith is a very good sort of girl; and I should be happy to see her respectably settled.
austen|Emma did not want to be classed with the Mrs Eltons, the Mrs Perrys, and the Mrs Coles, who would force themselves anywhere; neither could she feel any right of preference herselfshe submitted, therefore, and only questioned Miss Bates farther as to her nieces appetite and diet, which she longed to be able to assist.
dickens|Though, lookee here, Pips comrade, he said to Herbert, after having discoursed for some time, I know very well that once since I come backfor half a minuteIve been low.
austen|The whole party walked about, and looked, and praised again; and then, having nothing else to do, formed a sort of halfcircle round the fire, to observe in their various modes, till other subjects were started, that, though May, a fire in the evening was still very pleasant.
dickens|There, youve got it.
dickens|repeated the farrier, swinging his hammer.
dickens|Business!
dickens|He faintly moaned, I am done for, as the victim, and he barbarously bellowed, Ill serve you out, as the murderer.
austen|I should be sorry, you know, to think ill of a young man who has lived so long in Derbyshire.
dickens|Youd be sorry arterwards to have done it.
austen|Mr Darcy spoke with affectionate praise of his sisters proficiency.
dickens|How near to her heart the echoes of her childs tread came, and those of her own dear fathers, always active and selfpossessed, and those of her dear husbands, need not be told.
dickens|His hands released her as he uttered this cry, and went up to his white hair, which they tore in a frenzy.
austen|Mr Frank Churchill was one of the boasts of Highbury, and a lively curiosity to see him prevailed, though the compliment was so little returned that he had never been there in his life.
austen|The day of his and Lydias departure soon came, and Mrs Bennet was forced to submit to a separation, which, as her husband by no means entered into her scheme of their all going to Newcastle, was likely to continue at least a twelvemonth.
austen|Oh!
dickens|He lay on his back, with his teeth set, his right hand clenched on his breast, and his glaring eyes looking straight upward.
austen|But the expression is hardly admissible, Mrs Weston, is it?
austen|Our poor mother is sadly grieved.
dickens|It was a very muddy boot, and may introduce the odd circumstance connected with Mr Crunchers domestic economy, that, whereas he often came home after banking hours with clean boots, he often got up next morning to find the same boots covered with clay.
dickens|As to bowing down in body and spirit, nothing in that way was left for Heavenwhich may have been one among other reasons why the worshippers of Monseigneur never troubled it.
austen|Perhaps there was some truth in this; though I doubt whether his reserve, or anybodys reserve, can be answerable for the event.
dickens|When I was a hiredout shepherd in a solitary hut, not seeing no faces but faces of sheep till I half forgot wot mens and womens faces wos like, I see yourn.
dickens|On the crowds opening the coach doors, the one mourner scuffled out by himself and was in their hands for a moment; but he was so alert, and made such good use of his time, that in another moment he was scouring away up a byestreet, after shedding his cloak, hat, long hatband, white pockethandkerchief, and other symbolical tears.
austen|Miss Woodhouse has given her friend the only beauty she wanted,observed Mrs Weston to himnot in the least suspecting that she was addressing a lover.
dickens|With this boy?
dickens|But after a little while I seemed to have the whole flats to myself.
dickens|No.
dickens|The name of that prisoner was Damiens, and it was all done in open day, in the open streets of this city of Paris; and nothing was more noticed in the vast concourse that saw it done, than the crowd of ladies of quality and fashion, who were full of eager attention to the lastto the last, Jacques, prolonged until nightfall, when he had lost two legs and an arm, and still breathed!
austen|Ring the bell, Kitty, for Hill.
dickens|Now I see him!
austen|Neither would she regret that he should be going to Brunswick Square, for she knew how much his visit would be enjoyedbut it might have happened at a better timeand to have had longer notice of it, would have been pleasanter.
austen|Elizabeth was glad to be taken to her immediately; and Jane, who had only been withheld by the fear of giving alarm or inconvenience from expressing in her note how much she longed for such a visit, was delighted at her entrance.
austen|And, by the bye, can I or my housekeeper be of any use to you with our opinion?
dickens|This dialogue had been held in so very low a whisper, that not a word of it had reached the young ladys ears.
austen|She saw it all; and entering into her feelings, promoted her quitting the house immediately, and watched her safely off with the zeal of a friend.
dickens|Does everybody here recall old Foulon, who told the famished people that they might eat grass, and who died, and went to Hell?
dickens|You see, my dear, added Miss Sarah Pocket a blandly vicious personage, the question to put to yourself is, who did you expect to thank you, my love?
austen|When he was speaking of it in that way, I honestly said that the world I could give upparties, balls, playsfor I had no fear of retirement.
austen|They must begin with some quickness of sight and hand, and exercise improves them.
austen|With the view of passing off an awkward moment, Emma smilingly said,  You must make my apologies to your friend; but so good a charade must not be confined to one or two.
austen|Poor Charlotte!
austen|She could not win him, however, to any conversation; he merely answered her question, and read on.
dickens|And when he lifted his eyes from it to the horizon and looked around, he saw in his small fancy similar figures, stopped by no obstacle, tending to centres all over France.
dickens|Why have you lured me here?
dickens|Nor giv no one the office to follow you?
dickens|Whos the Spider?
dickens|Then, Mr Pip, one of those two prisoners sat behind you tonight.
austen|It was Lady Catherine de Bourgh.
austen|It was not thrown away on her, she bounded higher than ever, flew farther down the middle, and was in a continual course of smiles.
austen|Who could have imagined that we should receive an invitation to dine there an invitation, moreover, including the whole party so immediately after your arrival!
austen|They are to be new set.
dickens|They spoke in such a tone as they would have used if they had been watching by a sickbed in the night.
dickens|That Compeyson stood in mortal fear of him, neither of the two could know much better than I; and that any such man as that man had been described to be would hesitate to release himself for good from a dreaded enemy by the safe means of becoming an informer was scarcely to be imagined.
dickens|Say rather, I should not be; for I have my letter to Satis House to write, before I go to sleep.
austen|What!
austen|This was a device, I suppose, to sport with my curiosity, and exercise my talent of guessing.
austen|Poor Knightley!
dickens|Here, the daylight reappeared, and I found myself in a small paved courtyard, the opposite side of which was formed by a detached dwellinghouse, that looked as if it had once belonged to the manager or head clerk of the extinct brewery.
austen|I never knew days fly so fast.
austen|If she is ill I should be sorry to do her injustice; but there are some traits in her character which make it difficult for me to speak of her with the forbearance I could wish.
dickens|Didnt you?
austen|She supposed, if he meant anything, he must mean an allusion to what might arise in that quarter.
dickens|I thought he was proud, said I.
dickens|Thinking is easy enough, said the grave lady.
dickens|As one of the soldiers, who carried a basket in lieu of a gun, went down on his knee to open it, my convict looked round him for the first time, and saw me.
austen|As they walked home, Elizabeth related to Jane what she had seen pass between the two gentlemen; but though Jane would have defended either or both, had they appeared to be in the wrong, she could no more explain such behaviour than her sister.
austen|In two minutes, however, he relented in his own favour; and muttering something about sprucebeer, walked off.
austen|Perhaps he wanted to speak to her, of his attachment to Harriet; he might be watching for encouragement to begin.
dickens|He had diminished the distance rapidly, but not so rapidly as to come up with Monseigneur on the road.
dickens|Find the door where the witnesses go in, and show the doorkeeper this note for Mr Lorry.
dickens|He could now assure Lucie that her husband was no longer confined alone, but was mixed with the general body of prisoners; he saw her husband weekly, and brought sweet messages to her, straight from his lips; sometimes her husband himself sent a letter to her though never by the Doctors hand, but she was not permitted to write to him for, among the many wild suspicions of plots in the prisons, the wildest of all pointed at emigrants who were known to have made friends or permanent connections abroad.
dickens|The shadows of the wintry afternoon were beginning to fall, and even now the dreadful carts were rolling through the streets.
austen|said Jane.
austen|Elizabeth soon heard from her friend; and their correspondence was as regular and frequent as it had ever been; that it should be equally unreserved was impossible.
dickens|I perceive your tongue is, returned madame; and what the tongue is, I suppose the man is.
dickens|A quainter corner than the corner where the Doctor lived, was not to be found in London.
austen|There was no resisting such news, no possibility of avoiding the influence of such a happy face as Mr Westons, confirmed as it all was by the words and the countenance of his wife, fewer and quieter, but not less to the purpose.
dickens|Does any one live, who knows what set purposes you have, half as well as I do?
dickens|He feared us so muchand with reasonthat he caused himself to be represented as dead, and had a grand mockfuneral.
dickens|Here they are!
dickens|With all the novelty of my emancipation on me, I went to church with Joe, and thought perhaps the clergyman wouldnt have read that about the rich man and the kingdom of Heaven, if he had known all.
dickens|retorted Mr Jaggers.
austen|Harriet was not insensible of manner; she had voluntarily noticed her fathers gentleness with admiration as well as wonder.
austen|How can you be smiling so, Lizzy?
austen|I should take him, even on my slight acquaintance, to be an illtempered man.
dickens|We are all desperate here.
dickens|Some of these people knew their turn for examination to be so far off, that they lay down on the ground to sleep or smoke, while others talked together, or loitered about.
austen|you forget yourselfyou take me for my friendany message to Miss Smith I shall be happy to deliver; but no more of this to me, if you please.
dickens|I shouldnt mind anything that you propose, I answered, but I dont understand you.
dickens|I know no more.
dickens|Of a sudden, he stopped, took the cork out of his bottle, and tossed it away.
austen|She felt that half this folly must be drunkenness, and therefore could hope that it might belong only to the passing hour.
austen|I have not the smallest doubt of the issue.
austen|We were speaking the other day, you know, of his being so warm an admirer of her performance.
dickens|These were among the echoes to which Lucie, sometimes pensive, sometimes amused and laughing, listened in the echoing corner, until her little daughter was six years old.
dickens|The table trembled in the silence that followed.
austen|A man who had felt less, might.
austen|He likes to have his own way very well, replied Colonel Fitzwilliam.
dickens|I was haunted by the fear that she would, sooner or later, find me out, with a black face and hands, doing the coarsest part of my work, and would exult over me and despise me.
dickens|said Biddy.
austen|Everything, however, went on smoothly, and was finally settled according to Charlottes first sketch.
dickens|To judge from appearances, youre out of luck, says Compeyson to me.
austen|Dear Lizzy, only consider what he must have suffered.
dickens|It would have been difficult by a far brighter light, to recognise in Doctor Manette, intellectual of face and upright of bearing, the shoemaker of the garret in Paris.
dickens|Did I?
dickens|Through the rusted bars, tastes, rather than glimpses, were caught of the jumbled neighbourhood; and nothing within range, nearer or lower than the summits of the two great towers of NotreDame, had any promise on it of healthy life or wholesome aspirations.
austen|My dear Emma, I am longing to talk to you.
austen|The word is applied to many a woman who deserves it no otherwise than by netting a purse or covering a screen.
austen|Though her nephew had had no particular reason to hasten back on her account, she had not lived above sixandthirty hours after his return.
dickens|Evremonde.
austen|Their first pause was at the Crown Inn, an inconsiderable house, though the principal one of the sort, where a couple of pair of posthorses were kept, more for the convenience of the neighbourhood than from any run on the road; and his companions had not expected to be detained by any interest excited there; but in passing it they gave the history of the large room visibly added; it had been built many years ago for a ballroom, and while the neighbourhood had been in a particularly populous, dancing state, had been occasionally used as such;but such brilliant days had long passed away, and now the highest purpose for which it was ever wanted was to accommodate a whist club established among the gentlemen and halfgentlemen of the place.
dickens|She made a strong attempt to compose herself, and stammered that he was as punctual as ever.
austen|The stupidity with which he was favoured by nature must guard his courtship from any charm that could make a woman wish for its continuance; and Miss Lucas, who accepted him solely from the pure and disinterested desire of an establishment, cared not how soon that establishment were gained.
austen|We dine at Rosings twice every week, and are never allowed to walk home.
dickens|Pip, old chap!
austen|Emma remained very well pleased with this beginning of the acquaintance, and could now engage to think of them all at Randalls any hour of the day, with full confidence in their comfort.
austen|Little more than half a days journey.
dickens|No, she was not an only child; she had a halfbrother.
dickens|You are good enough to say so, as a fashion of speech; but, I dont mean any fashion of speech.
austen|It was a palpable display, repeated on every possible occasion.
dickens|What put that in your head?
austen|The evening of the very day on which they went brought a note from Mr Elton to Mr Woodhouse, a long, civil, ceremonious note, to say, with Mr Eltons best compliments, that he was proposing to leave Highbury the following morning in his way to Bath; where, in compliance with the pressing entreaties of some friends, he had engaged to spend a few weeks, and very much regretted the impossibility he was under, from various circumstances of weather and business, of taking a personal leave of Mr Woodhouse, of whose friendly civilities he should ever retain a grateful senseand had Mr Woodhouse any commands, should be happy to attend to them.
dickens|Well!
dickens|Handsome would be the word, returned my sister.
austen|Yes, I have no doubt of her being extremely attached to him.
austen|Neither father nor mother could promote, and the daughter could not endure it.
austen|Next to being married, a girl likes to be crossed a little in love now and then.
dickens|Gentleman.
austen|How could his will be disregarded?
dickens|Not to get up a mystery with these people, I resolved to announce in the morning that my uncle had unexpectedly come from the country.
dickens|And that, said I, is your deliberate opinion, Mr Wemmick?
dickens|It hid in doorways too, rubbing its horrible shoulders against doors, and drawing them up to its ears, as if it were laughing.
austen|I suppose she had nothing particular to say to you, Lizzy?
dickens|Noble, Pip!
austen|What do you say to Mrs Dixon?
austen|There were the pencilled marks and memorandums on the wainscot by the window.
austen|True, true, cried Mr Knightley, with most ready interpositionvery true.
dickens|And what did she give young Rantipole here?
austen|Gracechurch street, Sept.
austen|In what imaginary act of friendship can you here defend yourself?
dickens|The led cows, hastily brought in and tethered to anything that would hold them, were looking stupidly on, or lying down chewing the cud of nothing particularly repaying their trouble, which they had picked up in their interrupted saunter.
dickens|Do you call the whole reckoning?
austen|The advantage of the match I felt to be all on her side; and had not the smallest doubt nor have I now that there would be a general cryout upon her extreme good luck.
dickens|And you feel convinced that you must break with him?
dickens|When he cared to talk, he talked well; but, the cloud of caring for nothing, which overshadowed him with such a fatal darkness, was very rarely pierced by the light within him.
dickens|I saw him there, on the night she died.
dickens|and then entered on a fearful catalogue of all the illnesses I had been guilty of, and all the acts of sleeplessness I had committed, and all the high places I had tumbled from, and all the low places I had tumbled into, and all the injuries I had done myself, and all the times she had wished me in my grave, and I had contumaciously refused to go there.
dickens|said Joe.
dickens|I had never heard of any tutor but Biddy and Mr Wopsles greataunt; so, I replied in the negative.
austen|How directly, how strongly had he expressed himself to her on the subject!
dickens|You was a saying  How are you to be guarded from the danger you have incurred?
dickens|that Ill swear werent wrote in print, said Joe.
austen|I always deserve the best treatment, because I never put up with any other; and, therefore, you must give me a plain, direct answer.
dickens|Then there came, one night which appeared of great duration, and which teemed with anxiety and horror; and when in the morning I tried to sit up in my bed and think of it, I found I could not do so.
austen|One would rather have a stranger preferred than ones very particular friendwith a stranger it might not recur againbut the misery of having a very particular friend always at hand, to do every thing better than one does oneself!
austen|cried Mrs Bennet, as she stood at a window the next morning, if that disagreeable Mr Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley!
austen|Impossible that any situation could be more replete with comfort; if we except, perhaps, Mrs Sucklings own family, and Mrs Bragges; but Mrs Smallridge is intimate with both, and in the very same neighbourhoodlives only four miles from Maple Grove.
austen|she replied with a smile of astonishment, are you imagining me to be Mr Eltons object?
austen|though I thought it would be very good fun if I was.
austen|cried Emma, I know there is not a better creature in the world but you must allow, that what is good and what is ridiculous are most unfortunately blended in her.
dickens|The chambers are retired, and we shall be alone together, but we shant fight, I dare say.
austen|My ideas flow so rapidly that I have not time to express themby which means my letters sometimes convey no ideas at all to my correspondents.
austen|The feelings of the person who wrote, and the person who received it, are now so widely different from what they were then, that every unpleasant circumstance attending it ought to be forgotten.
dickens|Would you like to have a look at Newgate?
dickens|But we had looked forward to my oneandtwentieth birthday, with a crowd of speculations and anticipations, for we had both considered that my guardian could hardly help saying something definite on that occasion.
dickens|They knitted worthless things; but, the mechanical work was a mechanical substitute for eating and drinking; the hands moved for the jaws and the digestive apparatus if the bony fingers had been still, the stomachs would have been more faminepinched.
austen|Read it in comfort to yourself.
dickens|You are a man of business and bound to have a reason.
dickens|When it was dark, and he sat before the coffeeroom fire, awaiting his dinner as he had awaited his breakfast, his mind was busily digging, digging, digging, in the live red coals.
austen|The possibility of his having endured such unkindness, was enough to interest all her tender feelings; and nothing remained therefore to be done, but to think well of them both, to defend the conduct of each, and throw into the account of accident or mistake whatever could not be otherwise explained.
austen|On the following Monday, Mrs Bennet had the pleasure of receiving her brother and his wife, who came as usual to spend the Christmas at Longbourn.
austen|Never in her life had she seen his manners so little dignified, never had he spoken with such gentleness as on this unexpected meeting.
dickens|There comes the darkest part of Proviss life.
dickens|I know that these gratifying social ends were so invariably accomplished, that Herbert and I understood nothing else to be referred to in the first standing toast of the society which ran Gentlemen, may the present promotion of good feeling ever reign predominant among the Finches of the Grove.
dickens|Be that as it may, a change in his position making him conscious of a bar of light across his face, he looked up; and when he saw the glass his face flushed, and his right hand pushed the herbs away.
dickens|exclaimed my sister, pointing me out with her needle and thread, and shaking her head at me.
dickens|Marvellous cognac this, madame!
austen|So peculiarly the lady in it.
dickens|Even now, when I believe he is more hopeful of himself than he has ever been, and even speaks of himself with a kind of confidence, the idea that he might need that old employment, and not find it, gives him a sudden sense of terror, like that which one may fancy strikes to the heart of a lost child.
dickens|Biddy was waiting for me at the kitchen door, with a mug of new milk and a crust of bread.
austen|He stood by her, however, for some minutes, in silence; and, at last, on the young ladys whispering to Elizabeth again, he walked away.
dickens|Out with it.
austen|I have nothing to do with Williams wants, but it really is of very great importance that I should see Knightley today; and it becomes a matter, therefore, of very serious inconvenience that I should have had this hot walk to no purpose.
austen|They may wish many things besides his happiness; they may wish his increase of wealth and consequence; they may wish him to marry a girl who has all the importance of money, great connections, and pride.
dickens|Whether Mr Trabbs local work would have sat more gracefully on him than on me, may be a question; but I am conscious that he carried off his rather old clothes much better than I carried off my new suit.
austen|there is such an expression of goodness in his countenance!
dickens|Part with the child, unless it should be necessary to produce it to clear you, and then it shall be produced.
dickens|Help for the Bastille prisoners kindred in La Force!
austen|My father supported him at school, and afterwards at Cambridgemost important assistance, as his own father, always poor from the extravagance of his wife, would have been unable to give him a gentlemans education.
austen|Your sister I also watched.
dickens|Whos firing?
austen|It is time for us to be going indeed.
dickens|Not so long as that, said I.
austen|I shall like it of all things.
austen|An easy distance, do you call it?
dickens|Miss Havisham?
austen|I am not afraid of your not being exceedingly comfortable with Mrs Goddard.
dickens|And your duties here have drawn to an end, sir?
dickens|I went towards them slowly, for my limbs were weak, but with a sense of increasing relief as I drew nearer to them, and a sense of leaving arrogance and untruthfulness further and further behind.
austen|I am glad he is gone.
austen|I can comprehend your going on charmingly, when you had once made a beginning; but what could set you off in the first place?
dickens|Mr Carton had lounged in, but he made only Two.
dickens|Everybody says it is but one of several, and that there will be othersif there are not alreadybanishing all emigrants, and condemning all to death who return.
dickens|Not for use?
austen|She had always wanted to do every thing, and had made more progress both in drawing and music than many might have done with so little labour as she would ever submit to.
austen|Such a companion for herself in the periods of anxiety and cheerlessness before her!
dickens|We looked at one another until I withdrew my eyes, and looked thoughtfully at the floor.
dickens|Willingly, and a small return for your good offices.
austen|It need not detain us long.
dickens|I was not far out, since he said, after smoking a little  You see, dear boy, when I was over yonder, tother side the world, I was always a looking to this side; and it come flat to be there, for all I was a growing rich.
dickens|True again, said Uncle Pumblechook.
dickens|The universal watchfulness so encompassed him, that if he had been taken in a net, or were being forwarded to his destination in a cage, he could not have felt his freedom more completely gone.
dickens|I thought it had the most dismal trees in it, and the most dismal sparrows, and the most dismal cats, and the most dismal houses in number half a dozen or so, that I had ever seen.
austen|How?
dickens|Miss Georgiana, she have twenty pound down.
austen|Jane says that Colonel Campbell is a little deaf.
dickens|The fact was, that when the five hundred pounds had come into my pocket, a thought had come into my head which had been often there before; and it appeared to me that Wemmick was a good person to advise with concerning such thought.
dickens|I tried it with the load upon my leg and that made me think afresh of the man with the load on HIS leg, and found the tendency of exercise to bring the bread and butter out at my ankle, quite unmanageable.
austen|I knew the name, the place, I knew all about it, and instantly saw what she had been doing.
austen|After a few minutes reflection, however, she continued, I do remember his boasting one day, at Netherfield, of the implacability of his resentments, of his having an unforgiving temper.
austen|I shall only just mention the circumstance to the others in a common way.
dickens|I feel certain of it.
austen|The far and the near must be relative, and depend on many varying circumstances.
austen|where he says, that my information did not take him wholly by surprize, that he was rather in expectation of hearing something of the kind.
dickens|You are not going out, I hope?
austen|and it had been always imagined that they were to be so intimatebecause their ages were the same, every body had supposed they must be so fond of each other.
dickens|Do you think the uncomplaining eyes in which there is so much endurance, fill with tears, and the lips part a little more and tremble that it will seem long to me, while I wait for her in the better land where I trust both you and I will be mercifully sheltered?
austen|Where could you possibly hear it, Mr Knightley?
austen|Oh!
dickens|she missed me that time.
dickens|Doctor Manette, whom this visitation had so turned into stone, that he stood with the lamp in his hand, as if he were a statue made to hold it, moved after these words were spoken, put the lamp down, and confronting the speaker, and taking him, not ungently, by the loose front of his red woollen shirt, said  You know him, you have said.
dickens|And I know youre John, you know.
austen|She could have added, A young man, too, like you, whose very countenance may vouch for your being amiablebut she contented herself with, and one, too, who had probably been his companion from childhood, connected together, as I think you said, in the closest manner!
austen|The supposition did not pain her.
austen|When he came to Miss Woodhouse, he was obliged to read the whole of it aloudall that related to her, with a smile; a look; a shake of the head; a word or two of assent, or disapprobation; or merely of love, as the subject required; concluding, however, seriously, and, after steady reflection, thus  Very badthough it might have been worse.
dickens|Thats true.
dickens|Under these circumstances, when Flopson and Millers had got the children into the house, like a little flock of sheep, and Mr Pocket came out of it to make my acquaintance, I was not much surprised to find that Mr Pocket was a gentleman with a rather perplexed expression of face, and with his very gray hair disordered on his head, as if he didnt quite see his way to putting anything straight.
dickens|I suffered unspeakable trouble while I considered and reconsidered whether I should at last dissolve that spell of my childhood and tell Joe all the story.
dickens|If you please, committing you in no way, representing you in no way, I will undertake to correct my advice by the exercise of a little new observation and judgment expressly brought to bear upon it.
dickens|Excuse me, as a persistent man of business.
dickens|It is not the least to the purpose what the reasons of this prohibition are; they may be the strongest and gravest reasons, or they may be mere whim.
dickens|Nothing but the production of the afflicted Gabelles letter from his prison of the Abbaye would have got him on so far.
dickens|said the man with the restless hand and the craving air.
austen|After listening one morning to their effusions on this subject, Mr Bennet coolly observed  From all that I can collect by your manner of talking, you must be two of the silliest girls in the country.
austen|Mr Wickhams society was of material service in dispelling the gloom which the late perverse occurrences had thrown on many of the Longbourn family.
austen|Only look at her.
austen|her liveliness had never been worse timed.
dickens|He could not but admit to himself that he might not have made this journey, if he could have foreseen the events of a few days.
dickens|Unbind me.
dickens|You mistake me for another.
dickens|You see, too, said the Doctor, tremulously, it is such an old companion.
austen|News!
dickens|Quite, my child.
dickens|Yet, this Mr Carton took in more of the details of the scene than he appeared to take in; for now, when Miss Manettes head dropped upon her fathers breast, he was the first to see it, and to say audibly Officer!
austen|They will have nothing else to do.
austen|Such events are very interesting, but the suspense of them cannot last long.
austen|Thy ready wit the word will soon supply,       May its approval beam in that soft eye!
austen|Harriets claims to marry well are not so contemptible as you represent them.
dickens|Before the door was opened, or as it opened, a man said in a low voice, in English He has never seen me here; I have kept out of his way.
dickens|Here!
dickens|Taint only one wot can go up town.
austen|He said as little as he had ever been in the habit of saying; made no mention of the business that had taken him away, and it was some time before his daughters had courage to speak of it.
dickens|with many compliments too numerous and forcible to repeat.
dickens|Infinite pains were then taken by Biddy to convey to my sister some idea of what had happened.
dickens|Would it be much out of the way, to take me in, near the great cathedral door between the two towers?
austen|You shall hear thenbut prepare yourself for something very dreadful.
austen|At that moment, she cared for no other.
dickens|Lay your arm out upon the back of the sofa, my dear boy, and Ill sit down here, and get the bandage off so gradually that you shall not know when it comes.
dickens|It was the last selfexhausting effort of my fretfulness, for after that I slept soundly.
dickens|They paid for their wine, and left the place.
austen|Had he done his duty in that respect, Lydia need not have been indebted to her uncle for whatever of honour or credit could now be purchased for her.
austen|When I am quite determined as to the time, I am not at all afraid of being long unemployed.
dickens|And that it was a highly agreeable boast to both of us, and that we must both be very proud of it, was a conclusion quite established in his own mind.
dickens|Patriots, I speak the truth!
dickens|One word!
dickens|A Custum Us officer knows what to do with his Buttons, said the Jack, repeating the obnoxious word with the greatest contempt, when they comes betwixt him and his own light.
austen|Mrs Bennets schemes for this day were ineffectual.
austen|I can answer your question, said Fitzwilliam, without applying to him.
austen|You see how my father and Mrs Weston doat upon her.
austen|Well, Miss Woodhouse, he almost immediately began, your inclination for dancing has not been quite frightened away, I hope, by the terrors of my fathers little rooms.
austen|you are too obliging!
dickens|After that, he sat feeling his rightside flaxen curls and whisker, and following Mrs Joe about with his blue eyes, as his manner always was at squally times.
dickens|cried Stryver, but this beats everything.
austen|If he had another motive, I am sure it would never disgrace him.
dickens|As the time approached I should have liked to run away, but the Avenger pursuant to orders was in the hall, and presently I heard Joe on the staircase.
austen|This was enough to prove that her approbation need not be doubted and Elizabeth, rejoicing that such an effusion was heard only by herself, soon went away.
dickens|I thought I saw him leer in an ugly way at me while the decanters were going round, but as there was no love lost between us, that might easily be.
dickens|Lord strike a blight upon it, I says, wotever it was I went for, if it aint for him!
dickens|Oh!
austen|Well, I am glad she is gone to settle in Ireland.
austen|I do not know.
dickens|said Mr Jaggers, with a short laugh.
dickens|Marry.
dickens|You may kiss me, if you like.
dickens|There was a peculiarity in his manner of shaking hands, always to be seen in any clerk at Tellsons who shook hands with a customer when the House pervaded the air.
austen|But I have never fixed on June or any other monthmerely looked forward to the summer in general.
austen|But that is nothing to us.
dickens|Yes, said I.
austen|There are few people in England, I suppose, who have more true enjoyment of music than myself, or a better natural taste.
austen|In my Bath life, I have seen such instances of it!
austen|He has been opening the doors very often this evening, and keeping them open very inconsiderately.
dickens|A daughter.
dickens|Thus, Saint Antoine in this vinous feature of his, until midday.
austen|etc.
austen|We had better go into the avenue.
austen|No, Mr Knightley, do not foretell vexation from that quarter.
dickens|They are your friends, said Miss Havisham.
dickens|Her father and their old friend got into it, and he took his seat beside the driver.
austen|I am not supposing him at all an unnatural creature, in suspecting that he may have learnt to be above his connexions, and to care very little for any thing but his own pleasure, from living with those who have always set him the example of it.
dickens|Monsieur the Marquis indicates me with his finger, standing near our little fountain, and says, To me!
austen|They had long wished to see him.
austen|This must be the grossest falsehood!
dickens|And we dont find them, easy.
dickens|Notwithstanding an unusual flow of company, the master of the wineshop was not visible.
dickens|He waited for me to declare that I quite understood that he expressly said that he admitted nothing.
austen|You shall hear what she says.
austen|They must not do less than others, or she should be exposed to odious suspicions, and imagined capable of pitiful resentment.
austen|At present I am not in love with Mr Wickham; no, I certainly am not.
dickens|I let him, of course.
dickens|He pretended that his Christian name was Dolge,a clear Impossibility,but he was a fellow of that obstinate disposition that I believe him to have been the prey of no delusion in this particular, but wilfully to have imposed that name upon the village as an affront to its understanding.
dickens|So you did.
dickens|When I told the clerk that I would take a turn in the air while I waited, he advised me to go round the corner and I should come into Smithfield.
dickens|And I could not respect your sorrow more, if you were my father.
dickens|The ringing of the bell had caused the adjoining bedchamber to be lighted.
dickens|Herbert crossed his feet, looked at the fire with his head on one side, and having looked at it in vain for some time, looked at me because I didnt go on.
dickens|O Joe, you break my heart!
austen|Only think what a miserable summer else we shall have!
austen|Colonel Fitzwilliam had called at the Parsonage more than once during the time, but Mr Darcy they had seen only at church.
dickens|I had not advanced another two hundred yards when, to my inexpressible terror, amazement, and indignation, I again beheld Trabbs boy approaching.
austen|Her heart was in a glow, and she feared her face might be as hot.
austen|Nohe should not eat.
dickens|You wouldnt mind being at once introduced to the Aged, would you?
dickens|I was not at all happy there at the time, observe, and I knew it well.
austen|Mr John Knightley must be in town again on the 28th, and we ought to be thankful, papa, that we are to have the whole of the time they can give to the country, that two or three days are not to be taken out for the Abbey.
austen|It seemed like wilful illnature, or a voluntary penance, for on these occasions it was not merely a few formal inquiries and an awkward pause and then away, but he actually thought it necessary to turn back and walk with her.
dickens|He keeps them on shelves over his head, and will weigh them all.
austen|As long as they lived, no exertions would be necessary, their home might be hers for ever; and for their own comfort they would have retained her wholly; but this would be selfishnesswhat must be at last, had better be soon.
austen|She had previously determined how far she would proceed, on any application of the sort; and it would be safer for both, to have the judicious law of her own brain laid down with speed.
dickens|Now, I return to this young fellow.
dickens|and others, Hes a young un, too, but looks bad, dont he?
dickens|What, surely must I understand?
dickens|So used are the regular inhabitants of the houses to the spectacle, that in many windows there are no people, and in some the occupation of the hands is not so much as suspended, while the eyes survey the faces in the tumbrils.
dickens|When I took the tidings home, our fathers heart burst; he never spoke one of the words that filled it.
austen|She resolved to prevail on her to spend a day at Hartfield.
austen|My love, should not you like to see a place of which you have heard so much?
austen|Well, he must be a most extraordinary  Nay, nay, read on.
dickens|A clammy and intensely cold mist, it made its slow way through the air in ripples that visibly followed and overspread one another, as the waves of an unwholesome sea might do.
dickens|The remorseless sea of turbulently swaying shapes, voices of vengeance, and faces hardened in the furnaces of suffering until the touch of pity could make no mark on them.
dickens|I am in a countinghouse, and looking about me.
dickens|Keep your eyes upon me, dear child, and mind no other object.
dickens|Mr Cruncher had by this time taken quite a lunch of rust off his fingers in his following of the evidence.
dickens|With a shock he became aware of me, and was severely visited as before; but this time his motion was rotatory, and he staggered round and round me with knees more afflicted, and with uplifted hands as if beseeching for mercy.
austen|And the staircaseYou know, as I came in, I observed how very like the staircase was; placed exactly in the same part of the house.
dickens|Then, we went into the hut, where there was a smell of tobacco and whitewash, and a bright fire, and a lamp, and a stand of muskets, and a drum, and a low wooden bedstead, like an overgrown mangle without the machinery, capable of holding about a dozen soldiers all at once.
austen|Emma, this is your doing.
dickens|Living on?
austen|It will do you good to speak of your distress, whatever it may be.
dickens|Utterly preposterous as his cravat was, and as his collars were, I was conscious of a sort of dignity in the look.
austen|They will be so very happy to see you.
austen|I am really tired of exploring so long on one spot.
dickens|On his answering in the affirmative, Then bring me another pint of this same wine, drawer, and come and wake me at ten.
austen|At Hartfield, you have had very good specimens of well educated, well bred men.
austen|It was being very deficient.
austen|Not at all, cried he; I am much obliged to you for it.
dickens|Joe looked at me, making the motion with his lips and eyebrows, She?
dickens|They wore the dress that I likewise knew well.
austen|But these are not Janes feelings; she is not acting by design.
dickens|Done with their buttons!
dickens|The white vapor of the kiln was passing from us as we went by, and as I had thought a prayer before, I thought a thanksgiving now.
austen|I believe we drive faster than any body.
dickens|Repression is the only lasting philosophy.
dickens|What prison is he in?
austen|Every body is so surprized; and every body says the same obliging things.
dickens|As to the latter, when every postinghouse and alehouse could produce somebody in the Captains pay, ranging from the landlord to the lowest stable nondescript, it was the likeliest thing upon the cards.
dickens|I never had one hours happiness in her society, and yet my mind all round the fourandtwenty hours was harping on the happiness of having her with me unto death.
austen|Mrs Elton turned to Mrs Weston.
austen|But colds were never so prevalent as they have been this autumn.
dickens|And how much have you got?
austen|Quick and decided in her ways, Emma lost no time in inviting, encouraging, and telling her to come very often; and as their acquaintance increased, so did their satisfaction in each other.
dickens|I faltered again, I dont know.
austen|I shall do very well again after a little whileand then, it will be a good thing over; for they say every body is in love once in their lives, and I shall have been let off easily.
austen|The boy had, with the additional softening claim of a lingering illness of his mothers, been the means of a sort of reconciliation; and Mr and Mrs Churchill, having no children of their own, nor any other young creature of equal kindred to care for, offered to take the whole charge of the little Frank soon after her decease.
dickens|My first care was to close the shutters, so that no light might be seen from without, and then to close and make fast the doors.
dickens|Miss Pross, shaking her loving and dejected head at her by no means affectionate brother, said through her tears, Mr Cruncher.
austen|From what she had said of her resolution to prevent their marriage, it occurred to Elizabeth that she must meditate an application to her nephew; and how he might take a similar representation of the evils attached to a connection with her, she dared not pronounce.
dickens|It was the popular theme for jests; it was the best cure for headache, it infallibly prevented the hair from turning grey, it imparted a peculiar delicacy to the complexion, it was the National Razor which shaved close who kissed La Guillotine, looked through the little window and sneezed into the sack.
austen|Her hopes were answered; Jane had not been gone long before it rained hard.
dickens|I am the Resurrection and the Life, saith the Lord he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.
dickens|So sunken and suppressed it was, that it was like a voice underground.
dickens|This certainly had not a profitable appearance, and I shook my head as if I would imply that it would be difficult to lay by much accumulative capital from such a source of income.
austen|But it ended in nothing, and I will not be sent on a fools errand again.
austen|That will make thirteen with ourselves, so there will be just room at table for him.
austen|You must remember it now?
austen|I can no longer help thanking you for your unexampled kindness to my poor sister.
dickens|said she.
austen|No second meeting had there yet been between him and Emma.
austen|Indeed!
dickens|Its opposed to my orders to hold the gate open.
austen|Five couple are nothing, when one thinks seriously about it.
dickens|He remained, therefore, in his seat near the window, reading and writing, and expressing in as many pleasant and natural ways as he could think of, that it was a free place.
dickens|She concluded by throwing meI often served as a connubial missileat Joe, who, glad to get hold of me on any terms, passed me on into the chimney and quietly fenced me up there with his great leg.
austen|Some people call him proud; but I am sure I never saw anything of it.
austen|How is such a man to be worked on?
dickens|Need you say it face to face?
dickens|Afraid, in her extreme perturbation, of the loneliness of the deserted rooms, and of halfimagined faces peeping from behind every open door in them, Miss Pross got a basin of cold water and began laving her eyes, which were swollen and red.
dickens|Therese Defarge!
dickens|Youre not in a fit state to come here, if you cant come here without spluttering like a bad pen.
dickens|Few coaches were abroad, for riders in coaches were liable to be suspected, and gentility hid its head in red nightcaps, and put on heavy shoes, and trudged.
austen|Mrs Gardiner looked at her niece, desirous of knowing how she, whom the invitation most concerned, felt disposed as to its acceptance, but Elizabeth had turned away her head.
dickens|He would want to help me out of his little savings, I knew, and I knew that he ought not to help me, and that I must not suffer him to do it.
dickens|I asked.
dickens|Inference clear as day in this region of suspicion, that Mr Barsad, still in the pay of the aristocratic English government, is the spy of Pitt, the treacherous foe of the Republic crouching in its bosom, the English traitor and agent of all mischief so much spoken of and so difficult to find.
austen|He has been here this very morning, on a most extraordinary errand.
dickens|I have given out that you are my uncle.
austen|I have a great deal of vivacity in my own way, but I really must be allowed to judge when to speak and when to hold my tongue.
austen|It may be easily believed, that however little of novelty could be added to their fears, hopes, and conjectures, on this interesting subject, by its repeated discussion, no other could detain them from it long, during the whole of the journey.
austen|We must not be nice and ask for all the virtues into the bargain.
austen|Jane declined it, however, and the husband and wife walked off.
austen|One can suppose nothing else, added Mrs Cole, and I was only surprized that there could ever have been a doubt.
austen|Oh!
dickens|Eh?
austen|Another view of man, my second brings;       Behold him there, the monarch of the seas!
dickens|Your father has been taken to the house of an old servant in Paris, and we are going there I, to identify him if I can you, to restore him to life, love, duty, rest, comfort.
dickens|Indeed, my own?
dickens|I started at every footstep and every sound, believing that he was discovered and taken, and this was the messenger to tell me so.
dickens|I try it with these details, and I see them all, in this my cell in the Bastille, near the close of the tenth year of my captivity, as I saw them all that night.
dickens|But, I saw nothing that in the least explained him.
austen|Stop me whilst you can.
austen|I dare say I shall see them soon here.
austen|She would not look again.
dickens|Seems you have been out after such?
austen|You shall not, for the sake of one individual, change the meaning of principle and integrity, nor endeavour to persuade yourself or me, that selfishness is prudence, and insensibility of danger security for happiness.
dickens|All three were wrapped to the cheekbones and over the ears, and wore jackboots.
dickens|Oh!
austen|Such an imagination has crossed me, I own, Emma; and if it never occurred to you before, you may as well take it into consideration now.
austen|It would be the greatest pleasure to them, if you could allow me to attend you there.
austen|Their father then went on to the library to write, and the girls walked into the breakfastroom.
dickens|He paused in his breakfast, and crossing his arms, and pinching his shirtsleeves his notion of indoor comfort was to sit without any coat, he nodded to me once, to put my question.
dickens|cried my sister.
austen|His character is thereby complete.
austen|A small sum could not do all this.
austen|It was a clear thing he was less in love than he had been.
austen|Every letter from her is read forty times over; her compliments to all friends go round and round again; and if she does but send her aunt the pattern of a stomacher, or knit a pair of garters for her grandmother, one hears of nothing else for a month.
dickens|Apart from any inclinations of my own, I understood Wemmicks hint now.
dickens|He took the toastingfork and sausage from me as he spoke, and set forth the Ageds breakfast neatly on a little tray.
dickens|Nothing that he wore then fitted him or seemed to belong to him; and everything that he wore then grazed him.
austen|That is my idea of good breeding; and those persons who fancy themselves very important, and never open their mouths, quite mistake the matter.
austen|Lady Catherine seemed resigned.
austen|and yet how many things have happened!
austen|When she looked at the hedges, she thought the elder at least must soon be coming out; and when she turned round to Harriet, she saw something like a look of spring, a tender smile even there.
austen|Mr Darcy, you must allow me to present this young lady to you as a very desirable partner.
dickens|Under the overswinging lampsswinging ever brighter in the better streets, and ever dimmer in the worseand by lighted shops, gay crowds, illuminated coffeehouses, and theatredoors, to one of the city gates.
austen|Pretty!
austen|His aunt dies.
austen|She was vexed beyond what could have been expressedalmost beyond what she could conceal.
dickens|With those words the Impostor shook them both by the hand, with an air, and left the house; leaving me much more astonished than delighted by the virtues of that same indefinite it.
dickens|She really was a most charming girl, and might have passed for a captive fairy, whom that truculent Ogre, Old Barley, had pressed into his service.
austen|They were soon joined by some of the gentlemen; and the very first of the early was Frank Churchill.
austen|And then I tell her, I am sure she would contrive to make it out herself, if she had nobody to do it for herevery word of itI am sure she would pore over it till she had made out every word.
dickens|There, sir!
dickens|At that time, it was the custom as I learnt from my terrible experience of that Sessions to devote a concluding day to the passing of Sentences, and to make a finishing effect with the Sentence of Death.
austen|But I confess they would have no charms for meI should infinitely prefer a book.
austen|There, with spirits freshened, and thoughts a little relieved, she had taken a few turns, when she saw Mr Knightley passing through the garden door, and coming towards her.
dickens|He was a strongly made man with dark curling hair, from fortyfive to fifty years of age.
dickens|Squires of the Boar!
dickens|Thats all right, said he, rubbing his hands.
austen|He meant to provide for me amply, and thought he had done it; but when the living fell, it was given elsewhere.
dickens|When I offered to your sister to keep company, and to be asked in church at such times as she was willing and ready to come to the forge, I said to her, And bring the poor little child.
austen|He came four times a day for a week.
austen|Such was his own account at Randalls.
austen|He thought she had undertaken more than she was equal to, and that she felt it so herself, though she would not own it.
austen|As the blow was given, Emma felt that she could not now shew greater kindness than in listening; and Harriet, unchecked, ran eagerly through what she had to tell.
dickens|Everything that arose before his mind drifted him on, faster and faster, more and more steadily, to the terrible attraction.
dickens|Madame Defarge sat observing it, with such suppressed approval as was to be desired in the leader of the Saint Antoine women.
dickens|said Defarge.
austen|It was not in their direct road, nor more than a mile or two out of it.
austen|Oh!
dickens|Why I hoarded up this last wretched little rag of the robe of hope that was rent and given to the winds, how do I know?
austen|To Jane herself, she exclaimed, there could be no possibility of objection; all loveliness and goodness as she is!
dickens|She had a serpentine way of coming close at me when she pretended to be vitally interested in the friends and localities I had left, which was altogether snaky and forktongued; and when she made an occasional bounce upon Startop who said very little to her, or upon Drummle who said less, I rather envied them for being on the opposite side of the table.
austen|She knew how little such a situation would give pleasure to either, or make either appear to advantage.
austen|But I will no longer importune my young cousin.
austen|Mr Knightley, I wish you had the benefit of this; I think this would convince you.
dickens|I can do no more.
dickens|Lookee here!
austen|Oh!
dickens|So afflicted to find that his friend has drawn a prize in the lottery of Sainte Guillotine?
dickens|At length the jackal had got together a compact repast for the lion, and proceeded to offer it to him.
dickens|exclaimed the gaoler, left with his wife.
dickens|The company murmured their compliments.
austen|Elizabeth felt that they had entirely misunderstood his character, but said nothing.
dickens|Once more, said the man, staring at me.
dickens|Good night, Mr Carton, said the man of business.
austen|How was it to be endured?
austen|My greatest danger, perhaps, in housekeeping, may be quite the other way, in doing too much, and being too careless of expense.
austen|Console Lady Catherine as well as you can.
austen|A Miss Hawkins of Bath.
dickens|As to thee, pursued madame, implacably, addressing her husband, if it depended on theewhich, happily, it does notthou wouldst rescue this man even now.
dickens|You oppose yourself to the profit of the business, said Jerry, and me and my partners suffer.
austen|I never saw any gentlemans handwritingEmma began, looking also at Mrs Weston; but stopped, on perceiving that Mrs Weston was attending to some one elseand the pause gave her time to reflect, Now, how am I going to introduce him?
austen|He wanted her to look up and smile; and having now brought herself not to smile too broadlyshe didcheerfully answering,  You need not be at any pains to reconcile me to the match.
dickens|I am sorry to hear you putting any such extraordinary questions.
austen|I hope you find a chair.
dickens|Outside Tellsonsnever by any means in it, unless called inwas an oddjobman, an occasional porter and messenger, who served as the live sign of the house.
austen|To be sure, you knew no actual good of mebut nobody thinks of that when they fall in love.
dickens|I understood that very well.
dickens|When we got to the foot of the stairs, I asked Herbert whether he had preserved the name of Provis.
austen|Nothing but concern for Elizabeth could enable Bingley to keep his countenance.
austen|I told Mrs Collins so before you came.
austen|Such an eye!
austen|Lady Catherine is a very respectable, sensible woman indeed, added Charlotte, and a most attentive neighbour.
austen|How could she have exposed herself to such ill opinion in any one she valued!
austen|No, I would not be the means of giving them any pain.
austen|Such a happy little circle as you find us here.
dickens|said Stryver.
dickens|Available for both, he said, placing these against the wall.
austen|The coach, therefore, took them the first stage of their journey, and brought its master back to Longbourn.
austen|He only told me what I have now told you.
austen|The greatest kindness you can shew me, will be to let me have my own way, and only say that I am gone when it is necessary.
austen|Dear Emma has been to call on Mrs and Miss Bates, Mr Knightley, as I told you before.
austen|The happiness which this reply produced, was such as he had probably never felt before; and he expressed himself on the occasion as sensibly and as warmly as a man violently in love can be supposed to do.
dickens|She sends you her regard.
austen|The next morning, however, made an alteration; for in a quarter of an hours teteatete with Mrs Bennet before breakfast, a conversation beginning with his parsonagehouse, and leading naturally to the avowal of his hopes, that a mistress might be found for it at Longbourn, produced from her, amid very complaisant smiles and general encouragement, a caution against the very Jane he had fixed on.
dickens|We had not yet made any allusion to my change of fortune, nor did I know how much of my late history he was acquainted with.
dickens|Curious little publichousesand smithiesand that.
dickens|said Miss Havisham, playing with Estellas hair.
dickens|Because he has lived so long, locked up, that he would be frightenedravetear himself to piecesdiecome to I know not what harmif his door was left open.
austen|I hope you will be pleased with my son; but you must not expect a prodigy.
austen|Mr Darcy was almost as far from her as the table could divide them.
austen|From something that he said, my dear Emma, I rather imagine  And how could she bear such behaviour!
dickens|Does the thoughtcontracted brow of the local Sage or the lustrous eye of local Beauty inquire whose fortunes?
dickens|he said deferentially.
dickens|Im only a subordinate.
dickens|That, they were all in excellent spirits on the road home, and sang, O Lady Fair!
dickens|She is my sister, Doctor.
austen|Harriet, Mr Elton, and Mr Knightley, their own especial set, were the only persons invited to meet them;the hours were to be early, as well as the numbers few; Mr Woodhouses habits and inclination being consulted in every thing.
austen|I can easily believe that letters are very little to you, much less than to me, but it is not your being ten years older than myself which makes the difference, it is not age, but situation.
dickens|Ay!
dickens|Is theretell me thouis there no other place to write such words in?
dickens|As the bank passengerwith an arm drawn through the leathern strap, which did what lay in it to keep him from pounding against the next passenger, and driving him into his corner, whenever the coach got a special joltnodded in his place, with halfshut eyes, the little coachwindows, and the coachlamp dimly gleaming through them, and the bulky bundle of opposite passenger, became the bank, and did a great stroke of business.
austen|Do you not think it would be a proper compliment to the place?
dickens|I remember Mrs Hubble as a little curly sharpedged person in skyblue, who held a conventionally juvenile position, because she had married Mr Hubble,I dont know at what remote period,when she was much younger than he.
austen|I will fetch your greatcoat and open the garden door for you.
austen|I have been but half a friend to her; and if she were not to feel this disappointment so very much, I am sure I have not an idea of any body else who would be at all desirable for her;William CoxeOh!
dickens|No more, dear Mr Pip, from your ever obliged, and affectionate servant,  BIDDY.
austen|Not a syllable was uttered by either; and Elizabeth was on the point of going away again, when Bingley, who as well as the other had sat down, suddenly rose, and whispering a few words to her sister, ran out of the room.
dickens|Just a mile, said Mrs Joe.
dickens|Lord love you, no!
dickens|protested Defarge.
austen|She will be taken good care of.
austen|cried Miss Bingley, Charles writes in the most careless way imaginable.
austen|why so?
austen|I forget where we had been walking tovery likely to Randalls; yes, I think it was to Randalls.
austen|Part of my lace is gone, said she, and I do not know how I am to contrive.
dickens|But you know what I mean.
dickens|I have delivered that letter, said Charles Darnay to Mr Lorry.
austen|was Mrs Westons parting question.
austen|Emma, finding her so determined upon neglecting her music, had nothing more to say; and, after a moments pause, Mrs Elton chose another subject.
austen|It was as much as Emma could bear, without being impolite.
dickens|I am stronger than you, I bless Heaven for it.
austen|No more have I, said Mr Bennet; and I am glad to find that you do not depend on her serving you.
austen|And when you have given your ball, she added, I shall insist on their giving one also.
austen|She was to convey Harriet, and they drove to the Crown in good time, the Randalls party just sufficiently before them.
austen|We were born in the same parish, within the same park; the greatest part of our youth was passed together; inmates of the same house, sharing the same amusements, objects of the same parental care.
dickens|What would present company say to ten pound?
austen|Excepting yourself and your brother, I do not know his equal for temper.
dickens|As I saw that he was restrained by fealty to Little Britain from saying as much as he could, and as I knew with thankfulness to him how far out of his way he went to say what he did, I could not press him.
austen|And this, said she, is the end of all his friends anxious circumspection!
dickens|Mithter JaggerthMithter!
austen|But the compassionate feelings of a friend of her father gave a change to her destiny.
dickens|Walking between her father and Mr Darnay, Lucie Manette passed into the open air.
dickens|I always take em.
dickens|This was no passive belief, but an active weapon which they flashed at more convenient places of business.
austen|Oh, yes!
dickens|This is Pip, is it?
dickens|The four surrounded him, where he stood with his wife and child clinging to him.
austen|He fancied bathing might be good for itthe warm bathbut she says it did him no lasting benefit.
austen|Mrs Elton left them no choice.
dickens|You dont know what may happen to him.
dickens|The great numbers on their backs, as if they were street doors; their coarse mangy ungainly outer surface, as if they were lower animals; their ironed legs, apologetically garlanded with pockethandkerchiefs; and the way in which all present looked at them and kept from them; made them as Herbert had said a most disagreeable and degraded spectacle.
austen|I had a letter from him this morning, and he will be with us within a fortnight.
dickens|When the fights were over, Biddy gave out the number of a page, and then we all read aloud what we could,or what we couldntin a frightful chorus; Biddy leading with a high, shrill, monotonous voice, and none of us having the least notion of, or reverence for, what we were reading about.
dickens|O Mr Pip!
dickens|A gaoler, with a list in his hand, looked in, merely saying, Follow me, Evremonde!
austen|I have said nothing about it to any body.
dickens|It is noble in you to tell me that you have other causes of unhappiness.
austen|That she was not immediately ready, Emma did suspect to arise from the state of her nerves; she had not yet possessed the instrument long enough to touch it without emotion; she must reason herself into the power of performance; and Emma could not but pity such feelings, whatever their origin, and could not but resolve never to expose them to her neighbour again.
austen|They continued together with unabated regard however, till the marriage of Miss Campbell, who by that chance, that luck which so often defies anticipation in matrimonial affairs, giving attraction to what is moderate rather than to what is superior, engaged the affections of Mr Dixon, a young man, rich and agreeable, almost as soon as they were acquainted; and was eligibly and happily settled, while Jane Fairfax had yet her bread to earn.
austen|No, indeed, Miss Woodhouse, you need not be afraid; I can sit and admire him now without any great misery.
austen|It was a private resolution of hers, not communicated to himor at least not communicated in a way to carry conviction.
austen|That Frank Churchill thought less of her than he had done, was indubitable.
austen|But will they make you happy?
dickens|On Wemmicks return from working these mechanical appliances, I expressed the great admiration with which I regarded them, and he said, Well, you know, theyre both pleasant and useful to the Aged.
austen|With him it was most unnatural.
austen|I pity, though I cannot help blaming her.
dickens|To appeal to her, was made hopeless by her having no sense of pity, even for herself.
dickens|What is the matter?
dickens|I distress you; I draw fast to an end.
austen|Well, said he, in a deliberating manner, for five minutes, perhaps.
dickens|He cherished an extraordinary belief in the virtues of shorts as a disguise, and had in his own mind sketched a dress for himself that would have made him something between a dean and a dentist.
austen|You need not.
dickens|That my father, said Lucie, hurriedly taking the paper from her breast, but with her alarmed eyes on her questioner and not on it, has much influence around him.
austen|It would be impossible to say what Emma felt, on hearing thiswhich of all her unpleasant sensations was uppermost.
dickens|Am I not prosperous?
dickens|Next noontide saw the admirable woman in her usual place in the wineshop, knitting away assiduously.
dickens|May be so, Mr Darnay; may be not.
dickens|You say truly, Mr Carton; I think they would be.
dickens|Yaha!
austen|Young ladies of her age are sometimes a little difficult to manage, and if she has the true Darcy spirit, she may like to have her own way.
dickens|For a moment, with the fear of my sisters working me before my eyes, I had a desperate idea of starting round the room in the assumed character of Mr Pumblechooks chaisecart.
austen|She is my youngest girl but one.
dickens|Then, she put on her gloves again, and we drew round the fire, and Wemmick said, Now, Aged Parent, tip us the paper.
dickens|said the uncle.
dickens|It is fifteen years since wesince Icame last from France.
dickens|She never abated the piercing quality of her shrieks, never stumbled in the distinctness or the order of her words.
austen|Caroline did not return my visit till yesterday; and not a note, not a line, did I receive in the meantime.
dickens|He knew very well, that in his horror of the deed which had culminated the bad deeds and bad reputation of the old family house, in his resentful suspicions of his uncle, and in the aversion with which his conscience regarded the crumbling fabric that he was supposed to uphold, he had acted imperfectly.
dickens|For a moment, he held the fair face from him to look at the wellremembered expression on the forehead, and then laid the bright golden hair against his little brown wig, with a genuine tenderness and delicacy which, if such things be oldfashioned, were as old as Adam.
dickens|It was obviously made with the assurance that he could not live so long, and was refused.
dickens|At last, it is.
austen|They arrived, the carriage turned, the step was let down, and Mr Elton, spruce, black, and smiling, was with them instantly.
dickens|Mr Stryver and Sydney Carton were both here yesterday, and both made you out to be more than due.
austen|Such were the gentle murmurs of Mrs Bennet, and they gave way only to the greater distress of Mr Bingleys continued absence.
dickens|In effect, we had not walked many yards further, when the wellremembered boom came towards us, deadened by the mist, and heavily rolled away along the low grounds by the river, as if it were pursuing and threatening the fugitives.
austen|She had long resolved that oneandtwenty should be the period.
austen|No sentiment of shame gave a damp to her triumph.
dickens|I knew that this might last for many hours, and that it would probably end in the silence of the grave.
dickens|I never saw her more.
dickens|Each of these exclamations was a shriek; and I must remark of my sister, what is equally true of all the violent women I have ever seen, that passion was no excuse for her, because it is undeniable that instead of lapsing into passion, she consciously and deliberately took extraordinary pains to force herself into it, and became blindly furious by regular stages; what was the name he gave me before the base man who swore to defend me?
austen|I think she will be pleased with the hermitage.
dickens|He is so droll, that Samson.
austen|The hasty engagement she had entered into with that womanHere, my dear madam, I was obliged to leave off abruptly, to recollect and compose myself.
dickens|Hush!
dickens|When I had rendered homage to this light, he went on to say, in a friendly manner  If at any odd time when you have nothing better to do, you wouldnt mind coming over to see me at Walworth, I could offer you a bed, and I should consider it an honor.
dickens|There were two men of secret appearance lounging in Bartholomew Close, and thoughtfully fitting their feet into the cracks of the pavement as they talked together, one of whom said to the other when they first passed me, that Jaggers would do it if it was to be done.
dickens|As we drew near to the place of encounter, she stopped and said,  I must have been a singular little creature to hide and see that fight that day; but I did, and I enjoyed it very much.
austen|The landed property of Hartfield certainly was inconsiderable, being but a sort of notch in the Donwell Abbey estate, to which all the rest of Highbury belonged; but their fortune, from other sources, was such as to make them scarcely secondary to Donwell Abbey itself, in every other kind of consequence; and the Woodhouses had long held a high place in the consideration of the neighbourhood which Mr Elton had first entered not two years ago, to make his way as he could, without any alliances but in trade, or any thing to recommend him to notice but his situation and his civility.
austen|I grieve to find, however, that Colonel F.
dickens|The marriage day was fixed, the wedding dresses were bought, the wedding tour was planned out, the wedding guests were invited.
dickens|See!
dickens|You know I am English.
austen|One feels that it cannot be a very long acquaintance.
dickens|This property and France are lost to me, said the nephew, sadly; I renounce them.
dickens|And it gained its point after all, for I saw it through the window within a few minutes, being nursed by little Jane.
austen|One has not great hopes from Birmingham.
austen|Her performance was pleasing, though by no means capital.
dickens|Then, came that singular calm and silence which succeed all uproars; and then, with the vague sensation which I have always connected with such a lull,namely, that it was Sunday, and somebody was dead,I went upstairs to dress myself.
austen|Acquit me here, and procure for me, when it is allowable, the acquittal and good wishes of that said Emma Woodhouse, whom I regard with so much brotherly affection, as to long to have her as deeply and as happily in love as myself.
dickens|It rose under my hand, and the door yielded.
dickens|Lie close.
dickens|I design to secrete it in the wall of the chimney, where I have slowly and laboriously made a place of concealment for it.
dickens|They tell me so.
austen|Darcy made no answer, and seemed desirous of changing the subject.
dickens|A third man got up and went out.
austen|But it is allall too late now.
austen|Oh!
dickens|I wrote, however, to Mr Trabb by next days post, to say that Mr Pip must decline to deal further with one who could so far forget what he owed to the best interests of society, as to employ a boy who excited Loathing in every respectable mind.
dickens|So he went.
dickens|I never discovered from whom Joe derived the conventional temperature of the four thousand pounds; but it appeared to make the sum of money more to him, and he had a manifest relish in insisting on its being cool.
dickens|What can the boy mean?
dickens|The man looked up at the sky.
austen|replied the happily deceived aunt, while eagerly hunting for the letter.
austen|A very gracious invitation was returned, and the evening no longer dreaded by the fair mistress of the mansion.
dickens|I can recommend it for your purpose, sir, because it really is extra super.
dickens|Not exactly relishing this, I said, Never mind me, Joe.
austen|To her voluntary communications Emma could get no more approving reply, than,  Very well.
austen|For the last week they had seen very little of Lady Catherine or her daughter.
dickens|The reply to this was made by him who had spoken second.
dickens|Better for him that his beard had never grown, for the National Razor shaved him close.
dickens|But I, though a common dog, so struck at him as to make him draw.
austen|From what I can collect, he left Derbyshire only one day after ourselves, and came to town with the resolution of hunting for them.
dickens|What purpose?
dickens|Hold the light higher, you!
dickens|Hark!
dickens|I hope, said I, hurriedly putting something into a glass for myself, and drawing a chair to the table, that you will not think I spoke harshly to you just now.
dickens|More than that, eh!
austen|Any other situation would have been much less in character.
austen|Where is the young man?
dickens|he answered, slouching out.
dickens|At first, they were a mere storm of coarse red caps and coarse woollen rags; but, as they filled the place, and stopped to dance about Lucie, some ghastly apparition of a dancefigure gone raving mad arose among them.
austen|It will be the only difference.
dickens|When I ran home from the churchyard, the forge was shut up, and Joe was sitting alone in the kitchen.
dickens|At first, as I lay quiet on the sofa, I found it painfully difficult, I might say impossible, to get rid of the impression of the glare of the flames, their hurry and noise, and the fierce burning smell.
dickens|Let them not hope to taste it!
austen|said Jane, faintly smiling.
austen|She liked him too little to care for his approbation.
dickens|I had nothing to add.
dickens|Now tell me.
austen|She checked herself, however, and submitted quietly to a little more praise than she deserved.
dickens|They looked at one another, as he used his blue cap to wipe his face, on which the perspiration had started afresh while he recalled the spectacle.
austen|The event had every promise of happiness for her friend.
dickens|And now, while he was composed, and hoped that he could meet the end with quiet heroism, a new action began in his waking thoughts, which was very difficult to master.
austen|It will not do, whispered Frank to Emma; they are most of them affronted.
dickens|cried madame his wife.
dickens|I have reason to think that Joes intellects were brightened by the encounter they had passed through, and that on our way to Pumblechooks he invented a subtle and deep design.
austen|Emma gave a start, which did not seem like being preparedand her eyes, in eager gaze, said, No, this is impossible!
dickens|Very well.
dickens|Not a haporth.
dickens|But you shall see some others.
austen|So I remember to have heard.
dickens|Mr Pip, Ill tell you something.
dickens|Let me interrupt you for a moment.
dickens|Yes, I could.
dickens|Mr Pocket, with the normal perplexity of his face heightened and his hair rumpled, looked at them for some minutes, as if he couldnt make out how they came to be boarding and lodging in that establishment, and why they hadnt been billeted by Nature on somebody else.
austen|I did not quite like your looks on Tuesday, but it was an ungenial morning; and though you will never own being affected by weather, I think every body feels a northeast wind.
dickens|Then, that glorious vision of doing good, which is so often the sanguine mirage of so many good minds, arose before him, and he even saw himself in the illusion with some influence to guide this raging Revolution that was running so fearfully wild.
dickens|I had tried hard at it, but had made nothing of it.
dickens|But, to be sure, the tide was high, and there might have been some footpints under water.
dickens|But, Mr Lorry thought he saw, as he leaned forward on his bench in the dusk, with his elbows on his knees and his head in his hands, that he was in some misty way asking himself, Why not?
dickens|I remember all that.
dickens|The man could not be more particular as to the time at which he saw her he got into dense confusion when he tried to be, than that it must have been before nine.
dickens|Again those nobles who had seen the coming storm in time, and anticipating plunder or confiscation, had made provident remittances to Tellsons, were always to be heard of there by their needy brethren.
dickens|Yes, sir.
dickens|The simple fruits of the earth.
austen|Seats tolerably in the shade were found; and now Emma was obliged to overhear what Mrs Elton and Jane Fairfax were talking of.
dickens|said Wemmick, thats over!
dickens|Clear of the house, I made the best of my way back to Pumblechooks, took off my new clothes, made them into a bundle, and went back home in my older dress, carrying itto speak the truthmuch more at my ease too, though I had the bundle to carry.
dickens|Thus Defarge of the wineshop, still at his gun, which had long grown hot.
austen|My dear Harriet, you must not refine too much upon this charade.
austen|Emma was very decided in thinking such an attachment no bad thing for her friend.
austen|I am not afraid of her dying.
dickens|The gaoler standing at his side, and the other gaolers moving about, who would have been well enough as to appearance in the ordinary exercise of their functions, looked so extravagantly coarse contrasted with sorrowing mothers and blooming daughters who were therewith the apparitions of the coquette, the young beauty, and the mature woman delicately bredthat the inversion of all experience and likelihood which the scene of shadows presented, was heightened to its utmost.
dickens|Whats all this?
austen|There can be no love in all this.
dickens|dont be so proud, Estella, and so inflexible.
dickens|I had never seen them on such ill terms; for generally they got on very well indeed together.
dickens|It began the moment we sat down to dinner.
austen|His behaviour to myself has been scandalous; but I verily believe I could forgive him anything and everything, rather than his disappointing the hopes and disgracing the memory of his father.
dickens|No, not christened Pip.
austen|We scarcely got home in time.
austen|You had better look about you, and ascertain what you do, and what you mean to do.
austen|What is the matter?
austen|Mr Collins and Charlotte were both standing at the gate in conversation with the ladies; and Sir William, to Elizabeths high diversion, was stationed in the doorway, in earnest contemplation of the greatness before him, and constantly bowing whenever Miss de Bourgh looked that way.
dickens|The day came, but not the bridegroom.
dickens|Theres Jaggers, and theres Wemmick, and theres you.
dickens|Upon a corner stone in an angle of the wall, one prisoner, who seemed to have gone to execution, had cut as his last work, three letters.
dickens|said he.
austen|I was telling you of your grandmama, Jane,There was a little disappointment.
dickens|Worse quarters than Defarges wineshop, could easily have been found in Paris for a provincial slave of that degree.
austen|Is not she looking well?
dickens|Much influence around him, has that Doctor?
dickens|My sister looked at Pumblechook who smoothed the elbows of his wooden armchair, and nodded at her and at the fire, as if he had known all about it beforehand.
dickens|I have thought so before now.
austen|can it be possible for this man to be beginning to transfer his affections from Harriet to me?
dickens|They were all leaning their arms on the counter close together, speaking low.
austen|Yesnoyes, to Mrs Goddards.
dickens|That nightit was the fourteenth of Augusthe sat up late, and wrote two fervent letters; one was to Lucie, explaining the strong obligation he was under to go to Paris, and showing her, at length, the reasons that he had, for feeling confident that he could become involved in no personal danger there; the other was to the Doctor, confiding Lucie and their dear child to his care, and dwelling on the same topics with the strongest assurances.
austen|Mr Wickhams attention was caught; and after observing Mr Collins for a few moments, he asked Elizabeth in a low voice whether her relation was very intimately acquainted with the family of de Bourgh.
dickens|I considered Mr Pumblechook wretched company.
dickens|As fur as I am concerned any ones welcome to my place.
austen|Late hours do not agree with us.
austen|She could neither wonder nor condemn, but the belief of his selfconquest brought nothing consolatory to her bosom, afforded no palliation of her distress.
dickens|Her relations were poor and scheming, with the exception of my father; he was poor enough, but not timeserving or jealous.
dickens|I wish I were going myself, said Charles Darnay, somewhat restlessly, and like one thinking aloud.
austen|She appeared to me to play well, that is, with considerable taste, but I know nothing of the matter myself.
dickens|which was the signal for the dip of the oars.
dickens|I were at the Bargemen tother night, Pip;whenever he subsided into affection, he called me Pip, and whenever he relapsed into politeness he called me sir; when there come up in his shaycart, Pumblechook.
dickens|SAP.
austen|I saw her answer!
austen|But I do not like the corner into Vicarage Lane.
austen|Now we all follow in her train.
austen|You must go to bed early, my dearand I recommend a little gruel to you before you go.
austen|We acted with the best intentions.
dickens|Mamma, said Herbert, this is young Mr Pip.
dickens|So might Wopsle.
austen|Do not you know that Mr Collins wants to marry Lizzy?
austen|how heartily did she grieve over every ungracious sensation she had ever encouraged, every saucy speech she had ever directed towards him.
austen|I have not that pain.
austen|Your soft eyes shall chuse their own time for beaming.
austen|Why must their marriage be private?
dickens|He knew enough of the world to know that there is nothing in it better than the faithful service of the heart; so rendered and so free from any mercenary taint, he had such an exalted respect for it, that in the retributive arrangements made by his own mindwe all make such arrangements, more or lesshe stationed Miss Pross much nearer to the lower Angels than many ladies immeasurably better got up both by Nature and Art, who had balances at Tellsons.
austen|But soon it came to be on one side,  But will there be good room for five couple?
dickens|Listen to what is to follow.
austen|The steady countenance which Miss Lucas had commanded in telling her story, gave way to a momentary confusion here on receiving so direct a reproach; though, as it was no more than she expected, she soon regained her composure, and calmly replied  Why should you be surprised, my dear Eliza?
dickens|Then, as the darkness closed in, the daughter laid her head down on the hard ground close at the fathers side, and watched him.
austen|Nobody can be more devoted to home than I am.
dickens|The windows of the rooms on that side, lately occupied by Provis, were dark and still, and there was no lounger in Garden Court.
austen|My dear Charlotteimpossible!
dickens|I had the strongest assurances that I should save him; and I did.
austen|I would not say so to every body, Mrs Elton, but I have not much faith in Mrs Churchills illness.
austen|It cannot be long, I think, before she comes.
austen|His regard for her was quite imaginary; and the possibility of her deserving her mothers reproach prevented his feeling any regret.
dickens|All I stiplate, is, to stand by and look at you, dear boy!
austen|You either choose this method of passing the evening because you are in each others confidence, and have secret affairs to discuss, or because you are conscious that your figures appear to the greatest advantage in walking; if the first, I would be completely in your way, and if the second, I can admire you much better as I sit by the fire.
austen|But you see, every thing turns out for the best.
austen|But I want to set your heart at ease as to Mrs S.
dickens|The House laid the letter down so close to Darnay that he saw the directionthe more quickly because it was his own right name.
dickens|Still, alive.
austen|I could have wished, however, as you know, that you had seen Mr Wingfield before you left home.
dickens|And we seldom have a child there.
dickens|Which do not overdo it, Pip, said Joe; but I shall be happy fur to see you able, sir.
dickens|You have acted and recounted faithfully.
dickens|Did I?
dickens|He came in and first tossed me some pieces of money; then struck at me with a whip.
austen|When first Mr Bennet had married, economy was held to be perfectly useless, for, of course, they were to have a son.
austen|Take a little time, consider, do not commit yourself.
dickens|Help, Gabelle!
austen|Bingley was endeared to Darcy by the easiness, openness, and ductility of his temper, though no disposition could offer a greater contrast to his own, and though with his own he never appeared dissatisfied.
dickens|To this distressful emblem of a great distress that had long been growing worse, and was not at its worst, a woman was kneeling.
dickens|It wont lower your opinion of Mr Jaggerss powers.
dickens|Miss Havisham was taking exercise in the room with the long spread table, leaning on her crutch stick.
austen|I now give it to you, if you are resolved on having him.
dickens|Sir, I can do neither.
dickens|Anybody here seen anything of any such game?
austen|You have many parties of that kind here, I suppose, Miss Woodhouse, every summer?
dickens|I do.
dickens|Much better, said Jerry, not unlike a reluctant witness at the establishment in question, than I, as a honest tradesman, wish to know the Bailey.
austen|Nobody was ever so fortunate as herself!
dickens|Who was he?
dickens|Monseigneur, I am flattered to devote myself to your orders.
austen|I could never tell whether an attachment between you and Mr Elton were most desirable or most natural.
austen|Oh no!
austen|Do not pity me till I saw her wan, sick looks.
austen|Mr Bennet, how can you abuse your own children in such a way?
austen|Manners were all that could be safely judged of, under a much longer knowledge than they had yet had of Mr Churchill.
dickens|Loitering on the way out of court not being allowed, Jerry heard no more but left themso like each other in feature, so unlike each other in mannerstanding side by side, both reflected in the glass above them.
dickens|John Barsad, or Solomon Pross, walked at his side.
dickens|Muzzled I have been since that half a minute when I was betrayed into lowness, muzzled I am at the present time, muzzled I ever will be.
dickens|His daughter.
dickens|One keeps a secret better than two.
dickens|The great majority were silent and still, looking fixedly at the ground.
austen|Soup too!
austen|And this consideration leads me moreover to reflect, with augmented satisfaction, on a certain event of last November; for had it been otherwise, I must have been involved in all your sorrow and disgrace.
austen|The dream must be borne with, and Mr Knightley must take his seat with the rest round the large modern circular table which Emma had introduced at Hartfield, and which none but Emma could have had power to place there and persuade her father to use, instead of the smallsized Pembroke, on which two of his daily meals had, for forty years been crowded.
austen|Mrs Weston was the object of a regard which had its basis in gratitude and esteem.
dickens|It is well.
austen|With the mention of Derbyshire there were many ideas connected.
austen|What are you telling Miss Bennet?
dickens|Hold that noise, said Mr Trabb, with the greatest sternness, or Ill knock your head off!
dickens|said he.
austen|So very obliging of Mr Frank Churchill!
dickens|repeated madame, nodding firmly; but my dear!
dickens|I have looked it in the face, in my different way; look it in the face, you, in your different way.
austen|How grievous then was the thought that, of a situation so desirable in every respect, so replete with advantage, so promising for happiness, Jane had been deprived, by the folly and indecorum of her own family!
dickens|For anything we know, she may have destroyed her child, and the child in clinging to her may have scratched her hands.
austen|The impossibility of her quitting her father, Mr Knightley felt as strongly as herself; but the inadmissibility of any other change, he could not agree to.
dickens|Shall we ever see such a night again, together!
dickens|In truth, he said this with so much delicacy, that I felt the subject done with, even though I should be under his fathers roof for years and years to come.
austen|She was wild to be at hometo hear, to see, to be upon the spot to share with Jane in the cares that must now fall wholly upon her, in a family so deranged, a father absent, a mother incapable of exertion, and requiring constant attendance; and though almost persuaded that nothing could be done for Lydia, her uncles interference seemed of the utmost importance, and till he entered the room her impatience was severe.
austen|When alone with Elizabeth afterwards, she spoke more on the subject.
austen|By Mrs Hurst and Miss Bingley they were noticed only by a curtsey; and, on their being seated, a pause, awkward as such pauses must always be, succeeded for a few moments.
dickens|Is that all you say?
austen|They found Mary, as usual, deep in the study of thoroughbass and human nature; and had some extracts to admire, and some new observations of threadbare morality to listen to.
dickens|And couldnt she then ask Uncle Pumblechook if he knew of a boy to go and play there?
dickens|The disposition of everything in the rooms, from the largest object to the least; the arrangement of colours, the elegant variety and contrast obtained by thrift in trifles, by delicate hands, clear eyes, and good sense; were at once so pleasant in themselves, and so expressive of their originator, that, as Mr Lorry stood looking about him, the very chairs and tables seemed to ask him, with something of that peculiar expression which he knew so well by this time, whether he approved?
austen|Her ease and good spirits increased.
austen|Am I to believe that you have never sought to recommend yourself particularly to Miss Smith?
dickens|I should certainly not have gone, but for the reference to my Uncle Provis.
dickens|I heard her.
austen|From the former.
dickens|Monseigneur, it is true.
austen|I was just going to tell you of our agreeable surprize in seeing him arrive this morning.
dickens|Estella took no notice of either of us, but led us the way that I knew so well.
austen|But this good old Mr Woodhouse, I wish you had heard his gallant speeches to me at dinner.
austen|And now nothing remains for me but to assure you in the most animated language of the violence of my affection.
dickens|He looked up, for an instant at a time, when he was requested to do so; but, no persuasion would extract a word from him.
dickens|Drummle didnt say much, but in his limited way he struck me as a sulky kind of fellow he spoke as one of the elect, and recognized Mrs Pocket as a woman and a sister.
dickens|Cant say, answered Mr Drummle.
dickens|Sure he saw the prisoner with these lists?
austen|He had a very fine flock, and, while she was with them, he had been bid more for his wool than any body in the country.
austen|said she.
dickens|Come on, and have it out in plain words!
dickens|Defarge drew out the key, closed the door, locked it on the inside, took out the key again, and held it in his hand.
austen|When the visit was returned, Emma made up her mind.
austen|It must make you better satisfied that your other four are single.
dickens|He was willing enough, but my sister was good and virtuous, and hated his brother with a hatred as strong as mine.
austen|When you have killed all your own birds, Mr Bingley, said her mother, I beg you will come here, and shoot as many as you please on Mr Bennets manor.
austen|The bustle and joy of such an arrival, the many to be talked to, welcomed, encouraged, and variously dispersed and disposed of, produced a noise and confusion which his nerves could not have borne under any other cause, nor have endured much longer even for this; but the ways of Hartfield and the feelings of her father were so respected by Mrs John Knightley, that in spite of maternal solicitude for the immediate enjoyment of her little ones, and for their having instantly all the liberty and attendance, all the eating and drinking, and sleeping and playing, which they could possibly wish for, without the smallest delay, the children were never allowed to be long a disturbance to him, either in themselves or in any restless attendance on them.
austen|There was a tooth amiss.
dickens|
austen|Oh, that I knew how it was!
austen|Harriets features are very delicate, which makes a likeness difficult; and yet there is a peculiarity in the shape of the eye and the lines about the mouth which one ought to catch.
dickens|I went to his room, and he was not there.
austen|no, now I recollect, now I have it; something happened before tea, but not that.
dickens|I know it well, answered Carton.
dickens|For, the footsteps had become to their minds as the footsteps of a people, tumultuous under a red flag and with their country declared in danger, changed into wild beasts, by terrible enchantment long persisted in.
dickens|Both were so wrapped up, and the night was so dark, and we were all so reserved, that I cannot undertake to say even that.
austen|Or, perhaps she may not have resources enough in herself to be qualified for a country life.
austen|Jane desired me to do it, so I always do and so I began today with my usual caution; but no sooner did I come to the mention of her being unwell, than I burst out, quite frightened, with Bless me!
austen|I have thought only of you.
austen|Here was a sly glance at Emma.
dickens|O yes!
austen|It was not so very bad.
dickens|Customers entered, and the group was broken up.
austen|He had frightened her a little about Mr Elton; but when she considered that Mr Knightley could not have observed him as she had done, neither with the interest, nor she must be allowed to tell herself, in spite of Mr Knightleys pretensions with the skill of such an observer on such a question as herself, that he had spoken it hastily and in anger, she was able to believe, that he had rather said what he wished resentfully to be true, than what he knew any thing about.
dickens|Within a quarter of an hour we came to Miss Havishams house, which was of old brick, and dismal, and had a great many iron bars to it.
dickens|His head hanging overlike this!
dickens|The crowd about him had pressed and passed the inquiry on to the nearest attendant, and from him it had been more slowly pressed and passed back; at last it got to Jerry  Witnesses.
dickens|Whatever gloss the various spectators put upon the interest, according to their several arts and powers of selfdeceit, the interest was, at the root of it, Ogreish.
dickens|I was not expected till tomorrow; but I had my keys, and, if Herbert were gone to bed, could get to bed myself without disturbing him.
dickens|When Joe went home at five minutes before ten, he found her struck down on the floor, and promptly called in assistance.
dickens|But it does matter, Mr Lorry urged.
austen|Selina is no fine lady, I assure you.
dickens|Say this day week.
dickens|What do I mean?
austen|Yes, very indifferent indeed, said Elizabeth, laughingly.
austen|Miss W.
austen|I have not been accustomed to such language as this.
dickens|He is English.
dickens|And if you come here bothering about your Bill, Ill make an example of both your Bill and you, and let him slip through my fingers.
dickens|I knew that every drop it held was a drop of my life.
austen|His visit he would now defer; but they had a very interesting parley about what could be done and should be done.
austen|Sometimes.
austen|In the evening, soon after Mr Bennet withdrew to the library, she saw Mr Darcy rise also and follow him, and her agitation on seeing it was extreme.
dickens|I say nothing more of my stake in this; this is what I ask.
dickens|But I would hold a pretty wager, sir, that a House like Tellson and Company was flourishing, a matter of fifty, not to speak of fifteen years ago?
dickens|Models of it were worn on breasts from which the Cross was discarded, and it was bowed down to and believed in where the Cross was denied.
dickens|How did you come by it?
austen|When I went away, I felt that it would soon happen.
dickens|We both did what we had to do without any hindrance, and when we met again at one oclock reported it done.
dickens|It is extraordinary to me, said he, that you people cannot take care of yourselves and your children.
dickens|How did you get on up town?
austen|Frank Churchill returned to his station by Emma; and as soon as Miss Bates was quiet, she found herself necessarily overhearing the discourse of Mrs Elton and Miss Fairfax, who were standing a little way behind her.
dickens|When I raised my face again, there was such a ghastly look upon Miss Havishams, that it impressed me, even in my passionate hurry and grief.
dickens|With drooping heads and tremulous tails, they mashed their way through the thick mud, floundering and stumbling between whiles, as if they were falling to pieces at the larger joints.
dickens|I have seen you somewhere.
austen|She said enough to shew there need not be despairand to invite him to say more himself.
austen|A very little quiet reflection was enough to satisfy Emma as to the nature of her agitation on hearing this news of Frank Churchill.
austen|Consider from how partial a quarter your information came.
dickens|Hereupon Startop took him in hand, though with a much better grace than I had shown, and exhorted him to be a little more agreeable.
dickens|One day is so like another here, he replied, that I dont know without casting it up.
dickens|Its a weakness to be so affectionate, but I cant help it.
austen|Oh!
austen|No, I thank you.
dickens|Joe held his knees and looked at me.
dickens|There was nothing revealed by the many eyes that looked at him but watchfulness and eagerness; there was no visible menacing or anger.
austen|She could think of nothing else; and yet whether Bingleys regard had really died away, or were suppressed by his friends interference; whether he had been aware of Janes attachment, or whether it had escaped his observation; whatever were the case, though her opinion of him must be materially affected by the difference, her sisters situation remained the same, her peace equally wounded.
dickens|She made use of me to tease other admirers, and she turned the very familiarity between herself and me to the account of putting a constant slight on my devotion to her.
dickens|The young forehead lifted itself into that singular expressionbut it was pretty and characteristic, besides being singularand she raised her hand, as if with an involuntary action she caught at, or stayed some passing shadow.
dickens|It is blind devotion, unquestioning selfhumiliation, utter submission, trust and belief against yourself and against the whole world, giving up your whole heart and soul to the smiteras I did!
austen|There are one or two, perhaps, glancing at Mr Weston and Harriet, whose thoughts I might not be afraid of knowing.
austen|She dreaded seeing Mr Wickham again, and was resolved to avoid it as long as possible.
austen|Have you had any flirting?
dickens|I felt as if her shadow were absolutely upon us, when the galley hailed us.
dickens|Now, I am dumb!
dickens|Not only were my arms pulled close to my sides, but the pressure on my bad arm caused me exquisite pain.
austen|replied Miss Bates.
dickens|We seek him.
austen|From that evening, or at least from the time of Miss Woodhouses encouraging her to think of him, Harriet had begun to be sensible of his talking to her much more than he had been used to do, and of his having indeed quite a different manner towards her; a manner of kindness and sweetness!
austen|What an excellent device, said he, the use of a sheepskin for carriages.
dickens|According to the immemorial usage of waiters in all ages.
dickens|But I do ask why?
dickens|Mrs Joe was soon landed, and Uncle Pumblechook was soon down too, covering the mare with a cloth, and we were soon all in the kitchen, carrying so much cold air in with us that it seemed to drive all the heat out of the fire.
austen|The least agreeable circumstance in the business was the surprise it must occasion to Elizabeth Bennet, whose friendship she valued beyond that of any other person.
austen|He is also handsome, replied Elizabeth, which a young man ought likewise to be, if he possibly can.
austen|Neglect!
dickens|No, said I, answering almost mechanically, in spite of my utmost efforts; not tomorrow.
austen|But it was her business to be satisfiedand certainly her temper to be happy; and all was soon right again.
dickens|For myself, I found that I was expressing my tendency to lavish expenditure, and to patronize Herbert, and to boast of my great prospects, before I quite knew that I had opened my lips.
dickens|The Wineshop   A large cask of wine had been dropped and broken, in the street.
dickens|No better man living to hold fast by what Tellsons had in keeping, and to hold his peace.
dickens|Whew!
dickens|Heaven bless you!
austen|Emmas first resolution was to keep her father from the knowledge of what had passed,aware of the anxiety and alarm it would occasion but she soon felt that concealment must be impossible.
austen|She thought he was often looking at her, and trying for a fuller view of her face than it suited her to give.
dickens|Well!
dickens|It brought me here, it brought me to my grave.
dickens|Some of us at Tellsons are getting old, and we really cant be troubled out of the ordinary course without due occasion.
dickens|Mr Trabb then bent over number four, and in a sort of deferential confidence recommended it to me as a light article for summer wear, an article much in vogue among the nobility and gentry, an article that it would ever be an honor to him to reflect upon a distinguished fellowtownsmans if he might claim me for a fellowtownsman having worn.
dickens|I know her father too.
austen|You must give me leave to flatter myself, my dear cousin, that your refusal of my addresses is merely words of course.
austen|But little had she dared to hope that so much love and eloquence awaited her there.
austen|I do not know a more luxurious state, sir, than sitting at ones ease to be entertained a whole evening by two such young women; sometimes with music and sometimes with conversation.
dickens|He never even seemed to come to his work on purpose, but would slouch in as if by mere accident; and when he went to the Jolly Bargemen to eat his dinner, or went away at night, he would slouch out, like Cain or the Wandering Jew, as if he had no idea where he was going and no intention of ever coming back.
dickens|She was truest to them in the season of trial, as all the quietly loyal and good will always be.
dickens|When shall I have you here again?
dickens|He tilted me again.
dickens|When I got into the courtyard, I found Estella waiting with the keys.
austen|Are they indeed!
austen|He heard her declare that she had never loved him.
dickens|Try another.
dickens|Dead as mutton, returned the other, and cant be too dead.
dickens|Do you imagine Mr Lorry had begun, when Miss Pross took him up short with  Never imagine anything.
dickens|Never, answered the mender of roads, recovering his perpendicular.
dickens|There have been sore mistakes; and my life has been a blind and thankless one; and I want forgiveness and direction far too much, to be bitter with you.
austen|But I suppose you had no opportunity.
austen|Thats easily said, and easily felt by you, who have always been your own master.
austen|How do you do?
dickens|He turned his eyes on Mr Jaggers whenever he raised them from the table, and was as dry and distant to me as if there were twin Wemmicks, and this was the wrong one.
austen|They spoke, therefore, of Mrs Churchills death with mutual forbearance.
dickens|Are you astonished?
austen|Harriet, who had been standing in no unhappy reverie, was yet very glad to be called from it, by the now encouraging manner of such a judge, and such a friend as Miss Woodhouse, and only wanted invitation, to give the history of her hopes with great, though trembling delight.
dickens|He was also in the habit of declaiming to Mrs Stryver, over his fullbodied wine, on the arts Mrs Darnay had once put in practice to catch him, and on the diamondcutdiamond arts in himself, madam, which had rendered him not to be caught.
austen|Who shall answer that question?
dickens|I have been dining with the days client; or seeing him dineits all one!
dickens|Projectors who had discovered every kind of remedy for the little evils with which the State was touched, except the remedy of setting to work in earnest to root out a single sin, poured their distracting babble into any ears they could lay hold of, at the reception of Monseigneur.
dickens|We were very gay and sociable, and I asked him, in the course of conversation, what he was?
dickens|See you, said madame, I care nothing for this Doctor, I.
dickens|Mr Pumblechook then turned me towards him, as if he were going to cut my hair, and said,  First to get our thoughts in order Fortythree pence?
dickens|And O the long, long night, with no return of her father and no tidings!
dickens|And that the soldiers lighted torches, and put the two in the centre, and that we went on to see the last of them, over the black marshes, with the torchlight shining on their faces,I am particular about that,with the torchlight shining on their faces, when there was an outer ring of dark night all about us?
dickens|I shut the book and nodded slightly to Herbert, and put the book by; but we neither of us said anything, and both looked at Provis as he stood smoking by the fire.
dickens|Never set eyes upon him.
austen|After this period every appearance of acquaintance was dropped.
dickens|When the wine was gone, and the places where it had been most abundant were raked into a gridironpattern by fingers, these demonstrations ceased, as suddenly as they had broken out.
dickens|She held the head of her stick against her heart as she stood looking at the table; she in her once white dress, all yellow and withered; the once white cloth all yellow and withered; everything around in a state to crumble under a touch.
dickens|It is a hundred to one if I should avail myself of it four times in a year.
dickens|I could go to Soho in the evening, and come to your chambers afterwards.
austen|Removed!
dickens|said I.
austen|It was enough for her to feel.
austen|I hope they are quite well.
austen|She did, indeed, Louisa.
austen|I had not at that time the honour of knowing any lady in the assembly beyond my own party.
dickens|I should have been a dead man if you had not come up.
austen|Never, never!
dickens|Soon, soon go, said Biddy.
austen|Surry is full of beauties.
austen|And, seriously, Miss Fairfax is naturally so pale, as almost always to give the appearance of ill health.
austen|These are the kind of little things which please her ladyship, and it is a sort of attention which I conceive myself peculiarly bound to pay.
dickens|O the sense of distance and disparity that came upon me, and the inaccessibility that came about her!
dickens|No answer still, and I tried the latch.
austen|Mrs and Miss Bates occupied the drawingroom floor; and there, in the very moderatesized apartment, which was every thing to them, the visitors were most cordially and even gratefully welcomed; the quiet neat old lady, who with her knitting was seated in the warmest corner, wanting even to give up her place to Miss Woodhouse, and her more active, talking daughter, almost ready to overpower them with care and kindness, thanks for their visit, solicitude for their shoes, anxious inquiries after Mr Woodhouses health, cheerful communications about her mothers, and sweetcake from the beaufetMrs Cole had just been there, just called in for ten minutes, and had been so good as to sit an hour with them, and she had taken a piece of cake and been so kind as to say she liked it very much; and, therefore, she hoped Miss Woodhouse and Miss Smith would do them the favour to eat a piece too.
austen|She was not so materially cast down, however, but that a little time and the return of Harriet were very adequate restoratives.
austen|He knows the value of a good income as well as any body.
austen|Dreadful!
austen|Mrs Weston was sorry for such a charge.
austen|Ah!
austen|Here is quite a separate puzzle.
dickens|On the Monday morning at a quarter before nine, Herbert went to the countinghouse to report himself,to look about him, too, I suppose,and I bore him company.
dickens|Among these, accordingly, much discoursing with spirits went onand it did a world of good which never became manifest.
austen|Poor Knightley!
austen|The beginning, however, of every visit displayed none but the properest feelings, and this being of necessity so short might be hoped to pass away in unsullied cordiality.
austen|What did Mr Weston tell you?
austen|Tell your sister I am delighted to hear of her improvement on the harp; and pray let her know that I am quite in raptures with her beautiful little design for a table, and I think it infinitely superior to Miss Grantleys.
dickens|A disturbed and doleful mind he brought to bear upon them, and slowly and heavily the day lagged on with him.
austen|when a gallant young man, like Mr Frank Churchill, said Mr Knightley dryly, writes to a fair lady like Miss Woodhouse, he will, of course, put forth his best.
austen|Harriet had been at Hartfield, as usual, soon after breakfast; and, after a time, had gone home to return again to dinner she returned, and sooner than had been talked of, and with an agitated, hurried look, announcing something extraordinary to have happened which she was longing to tell.
austen|you mean Jane, I suppose, because he danced with her twice.
austen|It must not be and yet the danger of a renewal of the acquaintance!
austen|Oh!
dickens|Well, then, said Defarge, as if a thought were wrung out of his breast, it is a long time.
dickens|Choose your bridge, Mr Pip, returned Wemmick, and take a walk upon your bridge, and pitch your money into the Thames over the centre arch of your bridge, and you know the end of it.
dickens|Once more, the two spectators started, as he turned upon her with a frightful suddenness.
austen|My dear Miss Fairfax, young ladies are very sure to be cared for.
dickens|Peace, little Vengeance, said Madame Defarge, laying her hand with a slight frown on her lieutenants lips, hear me speak.
austen|She was always having a glimpse of him somewhere or other.
austen|How could he tell that he might not be making me in love with him?
austen|Well, he is coming, you see; good news, I think.
austen|I could not have parted with you, my Lizzy, to anyone less worthy.
austen|I knew he would manage everything!
dickens|Yes, or no?
austen|but why so?
austen|It will give you every thing that you wantconsideration, independence, a proper homeit will fix you in the centre of all your real friends, close to Hartfield and to me, and confirm our intimacy for ever.
dickens|Now I want somehow to help him to a beginning.
austen|you would rather talk of her person than her mind, would you?
dickens|Well, Pip, said he, I must call you Mr Pip today.
austen|Oh, yes!
austen|With all my heart; I will buy Pemberley itself if Darcy will sell it.
dickens|Id sell all the friends I ever had for one, and think it a blessed good bargain.
dickens|Well; its a good thing, you know.
dickens|My daughter Lucie is, in this one respect, such a mystery to me; I can make no guess at the state of her heart.
dickens|Thats my way.
austen|There is no talk of his coming to Netherfield again in the summer; and I have inquired of everybody, too, who is likely to know.
dickens|come back from Botany Bay; and years have rolled away, and whos to gain by it?
dickens|This was the first time he had taken his leg from the chair.
dickens|No, said Mr Lorry, in reply to the House; I have referred it, I think, to everybody now here, and no one can tell me where this gentleman is to be found.
dickens|But, her courage was of that emotional nature that it brought the irrepressible tears into her eyes.
austen|The horses were post; and neither the carriage, nor the livery of the servant who preceded it, were familiar to them.
dickens|He went last of all, because of having to be helped from his chair, and to go very slowly; and he held my hand while all the others were removed, and while the audience got up putting their dresses right, as they might at church or elsewhere, and pointed down at this criminal or at that, and most of all at him and me.
austen|Something occurred while they were at Hartfield, to make Emma want their advice; and, which was still more lucky, she wanted exactly the advice they gave.
austen|And was Denny convinced that Wickham would not marry?
dickens|But the woman who stood knitting looked up steadily, and looked the Marquis in the face.
dickens|He is right there, Jacques, murmured Defarge, to him who had interrupted.
dickens|I may find a use for it one day.
austen|I shall never forget his flying Henrys kite for him that very windy day last Easterand ever since his particular kindness last September twelvemonth in writing that note, at twelve oclock at night, on purpose to assure me that there was no scarlet fever at Cobham, I have been convinced there could not be a more feeling heart nor a better man in existence.
dickens|I am looking about me.
austen|I never heard any harm of her; and I dare say she is one of the most tractable creatures in the world.
dickens|Touching those signals, little citizen, said Madame Defarge, sternly, that she made to the prisoners; you are ready to bear witness to them this very day?
austen|By this time, my dearest sister, you have received my hurried letter; I wish this may be more intelligible, but though not confined for time, my head is so bewildered that I cannot answer for being coherent.
dickens|He had worked himself into a state of great excitement, but he checked it, took two or three short breaths, swallowed as often, and stretching out his hand towards me said, in a reassuring manner, I aint a going to be low, dear boy!
austen|Had Lydias marriage been concluded on the most honourable terms, it was not to be supposed that Mr Darcy would connect himself with a family where, to every other objection, would now be added an alliance and relationship of the nearest kind with a man whom he so justly scorned.
austen|My dear Miss WoodhouseI come quite overpowered.
dickens|I earnestly hoped and prayed that he might die before the Recorders Report was made; but, in the dread of his lingering on, I began that night to write out a petition to the Home Secretary of State, setting forth my knowledge of him, and how it was that he had come back for my sake.
dickens|said Joe.
dickens|I dont deny that she do throw us backfalls, and that she do drop down upon us heavy.
dickens|I never said it would.
dickens|Mr Lorry was there, and Doctor Manette was there.
austen|But Jane was to go home with her, and at Longbourn there would be leisure enough for observation.
dickens|That weapon was a gentlemans.
austen|said Jane as she finished it.
austen|I hope not that.
dickens|said the passenger, in a tone of quiet business confidence.
dickens|said I.
dickens|We are extra official.
dickens|Foreign!
dickens|The dead man disposed of, and the crowd being under the necessity of providing some other entertainment for itself, another brighter genius or perhaps the same conceived the humour of impeaching casual passersby, as Old Bailey spies, and wreaking vengeance on them.
dickens|She is.
austen|In a moment he went on  That will never be, however, I can assure you.
austen|Elizabeth was pleased; though when she asked herself the reason, she had very little to say in reply.
dickens|I solemnly swear to you that I know of no harm having happened to Charles; that I had no suspicion even of his being in this fatal place.
austen|No principle of either would be violated by my marriage with Mr Darcy.
dickens|growled Mr Cruncher, its you I have got a old grudge again, is it, with your shameful impositions upon tradesmen!
austen|I remember that perfectly.
austen|Wickhams affection for Lydia was just what Elizabeth had expected to find it; not equal to Lydias for him.
austen|said I, it is Miss Woodhouse I am sure you will like to see her.
dickens|It has no good in it for meexcept wine like thisnor I for it.
dickens|Biddy says, I know he will be very glad to have it by word of mouth, it is holiday time, you want to see him, go!
austen|Jane, who was not so light nor so much in the habit of running as Elizabeth, soon lagged behind, while her sister, panting for breath, came up with him, and eagerly cried out  Oh, papa, what newswhat news?
austen|He declared himself to be totally unsuspicious of her sisters attachment; and she could not help remembering what Charlottes opinion had always been.
austen|The sole grievance and alloy thus removed in the prospect of Harriets welfare, she was really in danger of becoming too happy for security.
dickens|I calculated the consequences of replying Four Hundred Pound, and finding them against me, went as near the answer as I couldwhich was somewhere about eightpence off.
dickens|I have seen her mother within these three days.
dickens|I have not much to show you; but such two or three curiosities as I have got you might like to look over; and I am fond of a bit of garden and a summerhouse.
austen|The bare possibility of it acted as a farther irritation on her spirits; and her being left in solitary grandeur, even supposing the omission to be intended as a compliment, was but poor comfort.
austen|Frank was here in February for a fortnight.
dickens|As Wemmick and Miss Skiffins sat side by side, and as I sat in a shadowy corner, I observed a slow and gradual elongation of Mr Wemmicks mouth, powerfully suggestive of his slowly and gradually stealing his arm round Miss Skiffinss waist.
dickens|Another roar, with a prolonged shake at the end.
dickens|I said it people often do so, in such cases like a rather reluctant concession to truth and justice;as if I wanted to deny it!
dickens|No.
dickens|She and Jerry had beheld the coach start, had known who it was that Solomon brought, had passed some ten minutes in tortures of suspense, and were now concluding their arrangements to follow the coach, even as Madame Defarge, taking her way through the streets, now drew nearer and nearer to the elsedeserted lodging in which they held their consultation.
austen|You will find some friends here.
dickens|Such is the fact, repeated Defarge.
dickens|Very well.
dickens|The road would be none the smoother for it, the end would be none the better for it, he would not be helped, nor I extenuated.
dickens|May be said to live in jails, this boy.
dickens|He had been there often, during a whole year, and had always been the same moody and morose lounger there.
dickens|Mr Jaggers suddenly became most irate.
austen|He did not omit being sometimes directly before Miss Smith, or speaking to those who were close to her.
dickens|Try them again.
austen|Do you not want to know who has taken it?
austen|Playing a most dangerous game.
dickens|Dont go on in that way with a subordinate.
austen|A thousand and a thousand thanks for all the kindness you have ever shewn me, and ten thousand for the attentions your heart will dictate towards her.
dickens|Cly!
dickens|Did you speak?
dickens|Lord forbidding is pious, but not to the purpose, returned Mr Jaggers.
dickens|Get out of the way.
austen|Why was he to be the judge?
austen|But the gloom of Lydias prospect was shortly cleared away; for she received an invitation from Mrs Forster, the wife of the colonel of the regiment, to accompany her to Brighton.
austen|Colonel Campbell is a very agreeable man, and Mrs Campbell a friendly, warmhearted woman.
austen|There was no being displeased with such an encourager, for his admiration made him discern a likeness almost before it was possible.
dickens|Orlick there?
dickens|I pass my whole life, miss, in turning an immense pecuniary Mangle.
austen|Emma, I accept your offerExtraordinary as it may seem, I accept it, and refer myself to you as a friend.
dickens|I kissed her hand, and she took him in her arms, and went away caressing him.
dickens|So, leaving only one light burning on the large hearth, he let his thin gauze curtains fall around him, and heard the night break its silence with a long sigh as he composed himself to sleep.
austen|His behaviour to her sister was such, during dinner time, as showed an admiration of her, which, though more guarded than formerly, persuaded Elizabeth, that if left wholly to himself, Janes happiness, and his own, would be speedily secured.
austen|Every body so happy!
dickens|No?
dickens|He knew himself by no other name than One Hundred and Five, North Tower, when he made shoes under my care.
dickens|Thats a very good card.
austen|Nay, why do you?
dickens|The interval between that time and supper Wemmick devoted to showing me his collection of curiosities.
austen|You take delight in vexing me.
dickens|I recall it.
dickens|Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death;the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!
dickens|No, sir!
austen|It was more than civil; it was really attentive; and there was no necessity for such attention.
austen|She could not yet recover from the surprise of what had happened; it was impossible to think of anything else; and, totally indisposed for employment, she resolved, soon after breakfast, to indulge herself in air and exercise.
dickens|Theres power here, said Mr Jaggers, coolly tracing out the sinews with his forefinger.
austen|It could be protracted no longer.
dickens|Now, Ill ask you another question,taking possession of Mr Wopsle, as if he had a right to him,do you know that none of these witnesses have yet been crossexamined?
austen|Her figure was elegant, and she walked well; but Darcy, at whom it was all aimed, was still inflexibly studious.
dickens|Necessarily, being the last.
dickens|Surely it is not in Nature.
austen|I will take it home with me at night.
austen|how I laughed!
austen|What an idea!
dickens|No I am not, said Joe.
austen|Mrs Wickham!
dickens|The wineshop was a corner shop, better than most others in its appearance and degree, and the master of the wineshop had stood outside it, in a yellow waistcoat and green breeches, looking on at the struggle for the lost wine.
austen|That may be, and I may have seen him fifty times, but without having any idea of his name.
dickens|And whats happened to you?
dickens|I could not dress myself without help; but I made up the fire, which was still burning, and got some coffee ready for them.
dickens|With that, she pounced upon me, like an eagle on a lamb, and my face was squeezed into wooden bowls in sinks, and my head was put under taps of waterbutts, and I was soaped, and kneaded, and towelled, and thumped, and harrowed, and rasped, until I really was quite beside myself.
austen|She was particularly struck by his manner of considering Mr Eltons house, which, as well as the church, he would go and look at, and would not join them in finding much fault with.
austen|At length every idea seemed to fail him; and, after standing a few moments without saying a word, he suddenly recollected himself, and took leave.
dickens|You confuse me, and how can I transact business if I am confused?
austen|And, besides, no traces of them were to be found on the Barnet road.
dickens|Mr Lorry was so exceedingly disconcerted by a question so hard to answer, that he could only look on, at a distance, with much feebler sympathy and humility, while the strong woman, having banished the inn servants under the mysterious penalty of letting them know something not mentioned if they stayed there, staring, recovered her charge by a regular series of gradations, and coaxed her to lay her drooping head upon her shoulder.
austen|Even Emma grew tired at last of flattery and merriment, and wished herself rather walking quietly about with any of the others, or sitting almost alone, and quite unattended to, in tranquil observation of the beautiful views beneath her.
austen|I never saw anyone so shocked.
dickens|How can I take care of the dear child otherwise?
austen|Oh!
dickens|alive in the same land with them, and thats had such sure information of him when he was alive in another land, as that he couldnt and shouldnt leave it unbeknown and put them in danger.
austen|I hope, said he presently, I have not been severe upon poor Mrs Churchill.
dickens|To the satisfaction of the lady and the gentleman, it never will be.
austen|You get upon delicate subjects, Emma, said Mrs Weston smiling; remember that I am here.
austen|She had never perceived, while the regiment was in Hertfordshire, that Lydia had any partiality for him; but she was convinced that Lydia wanted only encouragement to attach herself to anybody.
dickens|Neither did he wear anything more on his head than his own crisplycurling short dark hair.
austen|If he would act in this sort of manner, on principle, consistently, regularly, their little minds would bend to his.
dickens|I dont tell it you on information received.
dickens|With his good honest face all glowing and shining, and his hat put down on the floor between us, he caught both my hands and worked them straight up and down, as if I had been the lastpatented Pump.
dickens|I clutched the leg of the table again immediately, and pressed it to my bosom as if it had been the companion of my youth and friend of my soul.
dickens|I think so.
dickens|Are you dying for him?
dickens|Madame Defarges hands were at her bosom.
dickens|She looked at me, and looked at Sarah, and Sarahs countenance wrung out of her watchful face a cruel smile.
austen|I must not decide on my own performance.
dickens|He had a boatcloak with him, and a black canvas bag; and he looked as like a riverpilot as my heart could have wished.
austen|She had even condescended to advise him to marry as soon as he could, provided he chose with discretion; and had once paid him a visit in his humble parsonage, where she had perfectly approved all the alterations he had been making, and had even vouchsafed to suggest some herselfsome shelves in the closet up stairs.
dickens|I kiss your hand, miss, said Mr Lorry, with the manners of an earlier date, as he made his formal bow again, and took his seat.
dickens|I made my exultant way to the old Battery, and, lying down there to consider the question whether Miss Havisham intended me for Estella, fell asleep.
austen|It seemed quite a shame, especially considering how many houses there are where fine instruments are absolutely thrown away.
dickens|Some papers had been handed about among them, but I dont know what papers.
dickens|The morning hurry and flutter had been great; for, long and anxiously as I had waited for Wemmick, his hint had come like a surprise at last.
dickens|He stopped.
dickens|After bursting open a door of idiotic obstinacy with a weak rattle in its throat, you fell into Tellsons down two steps, and came to your senses in a miserable little shop, with two little counters, where the oldest of men made your cheque shake as if the wind rustled it, while they examined the signature by the dingiest of windows, which were always under a showerbath of mud from Fleetstreet, and which were made the dingier by their own iron bars proper, and the heavy shadow of Temple Bar.
dickens|You see, said Doctor Manette, turning to him after an uneasy pause, it is very hard to explain, consistently, the innermost workings of this poor mans mind.
austen|Your mother insists upon your accepting it.
dickens|And I have never forgot it!
dickens|I was secretly afraid of him when I saw him so dexterous; but I felt morally and physically convinced that his light head of hair could have had no business in the pit of my stomach, and that I had a right to consider it irrelevant when so obtruded on my attention.
austen|But if he marries a very ignorant, vulgar woman, certainly I had better not visit her, if I can help it.
austen|Let me take it in the best light, in the light in which it may be understood.
dickens|For the first time in many years, he had no strong drink.
dickens|No, no.
dickens|That the father was still living.
dickens|But I am not a fortuneteller, he said, letting his head drop into a festoon of towel, and towelling away at his two ears.
dickens|he helplessly exclaimed to the elements.
dickens|No, thank you, said I.
dickens|I was afraid to sleep, even if I had been inclined, for I knew that at the first faint dawn of morning I must rob the pantry.
dickens|Nothing more was said, and the mender of roads, being found already dozing on the topmost stair, was advised to lay himself down on the palletbed and take some rest.
dickens|Lucie remonstrated.
dickens|You are fatigued.
dickens|Let him profit by the means as I found out?
dickens|And think so?
austen|By the byeI have not wished you joy.
austen|Pray, how violent was Mr Bingleys love?
austen|Elizabeth, on her side, had much to do.
austen|She had scarcely a stronger regret than for her past coldness; and the person, whom she had been so many months neglecting, was now the very one on whom she would have lavished every distinction of regard or sympathy.
austen|Mr Woodhouse was soon ready for his tea; and when he had drank his tea he was quite ready to go home; and it was as much as his three companions could do, to entertain away his notice of the lateness of the hour, before the other gentlemen appeared.
austen|I do not ask whether you are musical, Mrs Elton.
dickens|That, he seemed on the point of being at once released, when the tide in his favour met with some unexplained check not intelligible to the Doctor, which led to a few words of secret conference.
austen|Tell me, then, have I no chance of ever succeeding?
austen|There was neither in figure nor face any likeness between the ladies.
dickens|And we all had cake and wine on gold plates.
dickens|I observed that they were both wrapped in cloaks, and appeared to conceal themselves.
austen|look down upon her friend, so well understanding the gradations of rank below him, and be so blind to what rose above, as to fancy himself shewing no presumption in addressing her!
dickens|As he had nothing else than his majority to come into, the event did not make a profound sensation in Barnards Inn.
austen|This, Harriet, is an alliance which can never raise a blush in either of us.
austen|She never had been so depressed.
austen|They added to their house, to their number of servants, to their expenses of every sort; and by this time were, in fortune and style of living, second only to the family at Hartfield.
dickens|So, they plied their oars once more, and I looked out for anything like a house.
austen|For such an attachment as this she might have sufficient charms; and though she did not suppose Lydia to be deliberately engaging in an elopement without the intention of marriage, she had no difficulty in believing that neither her virtue nor her understanding would preserve her from falling an easy prey.
austen|But Miss Bates and Miss Fairfax!
dickens|On every rail and gate, wet lay clammy, and the marsh mist was so thick, that the wooden finger on the post directing people to our villagea direction which they never accepted, for they never came therewas invisible to me until I was quite close under it.
austen|Harriet could not recall it without a blush.
austen|No, I have not; I know nothing; pray tell me.
dickens|This is altogether a Walworth sentiment, please.
dickens|Upon my soul, I am not sure that it was not yours.
dickens|Brought round to the door, sir.
dickens|Wemmick went on; it happenedhappened, dont you see?
dickens|I cannot exaggerate the enhanced disquiet into which this conversation threw me, or the special and peculiar terror I felt at Compeysons having been behind me like a ghost.
austen|Indeed I will.
dickens|But he was not persuaded.
austen|Colonel Fitzwilliam, who led the way, was about thirty, not handsome, but in person and address most truly the gentleman.
austen|She hardly knew yet what Mr Knightley would ask; but a very short parley with her own heart produced the most solemn resolution of never quitting her father.
austen|sad business for him.
dickens|Without directly answering to this appeal, she sat so still when he had very gently raised her, and the hands that had not ceased to clasp his wrists were so much more steady than they had been, that she communicated some reassurance to Mr Jarvis Lorry.
austen|Elizabeth told her the motives of her secrecy.
dickens|The idea!
austen|She wanted to be of use to her; wanted to shew a value for her society, and testify respect and consideration.
dickens|They plunder us, outrage us, beat us, kill us; but we have a little pride left, sometimes.
dickens|The whole had a slovenly, confined, and sleepy look, like a cage for a human dormouse; while he, looming dark and heavy in the shadow of a corner by the window, looked like the human dormouse for whom it was fitted up,as indeed he was.
austen|We invalids think we are privileged people.
austen|go today, go today.
dickens|My first question when I saw Herbert had been of course, whether all was well down the river?
dickens|My pleasure ull be fur to see him do it.
austen|She is poor; she has sunk from the comforts she was born to; and, if she live to old age, must probably sink more.
austen|Lord!
dickens|But, the fierce figures were steadily wending East, West, North, and South, be that as it would; and whosoever hung, fire burned.
austen|Oh!
dickens|I am glad you like him, sir, said Ibut I dont.
austen|Elizabeth lifted up her eyes in amazement, but was too much oppressed to make any reply.
austen|Your tempers are by no means unlike.
dickens|said my friend, stopping in his crunching of piecrust.
austen|She is a handsome girl, about fifteen or sixteen, and, I understand, highly accomplished.
austen|This invaluable friend was a very young woman, and very lately married.
dickens|Which some individual, Joe again politely hinted, mentioned that she wanted him to go and play there.
austen|If I meet with no insuperable difficulties therefore, consider that point as settled.
dickens|No, said I.
dickens|I know that in loving you she sees and loves her mother at her own age, sees and loves you at my age, loves her mother brokenhearted, loves you through your dreadful trial and in your blessed restoration.
austen|Is not he a charming man?
dickens|When adopted?
austen|He should be particularly happy at any time, etc.
austen|How delightful!
dickens|But returning to what you said, you know, pursued the old man, again laughing heartily, what I say is, No to be sure; youre right.
dickens|You goes out of his way this present night.
dickens|While that was in course of being done, I looked on at Wemmick as he wrote, and Mr Jaggers, poising and swaying himself on his wellpolished boots, looked on at me.
austen|I can understand younodding at Mr John Knightleyyour good fortune in meeting with so many of your friends at once here, delights you too much to pass unnoticed.
austen|In the afternoon Lydia was urgent with the rest of the girls to walk to Meryton, and to see how everybody went on; but Elizabeth steadily opposed the scheme.
austen|You must see the difference.
dickens|In the instant, I had seen a face that was strange to me, looking up with an incomprehensible air of being touched and pleased by the sight of me.
dickens|You listen to this, said my sister to me, in a severe parenthesis.
austen|It was the scrape which he had drawn her into on Harriets account, that gave the deepest hue to his offence.
dickens|The neighborhood, however, highly approved of these arrangements, and we were much admired as we went through the village; the more youthful and vigorous part of the community making dashes now and then to cut us off, and lying in wait to intercept us at points of vantage.
dickens|B.
austen|The carriage was sent to meet them at , and they were to return in it by dinnertime.
austen|Mr Weston seems an excellent creaturequite a firstrate favourite with me already, I assure you.
austen|Emma listened, and then coolly said, I shall not be satisfied, unless he comes.
austen|Dearest Jane!
dickens|I do.
dickens|But, I am sure that he is capable of good things, gentle things, even magnanimous things.
dickens|When he was left alone, this strange being took up a candle, went to a glass that hung against the wall, and surveyed himself minutely in it.
austen|I will make no promise of the kind.
dickens|Coming up the hill, and at the top of the hill, both?
dickens|I understand you.
dickens|Come; cant I tempt you?
dickens|If it was all your money twenty times told, to the last brass farden!
austen|She blessed the favouring blindness.
dickens|When I awoke, the wind had risen, and the sign of the house the Ship was creaking and banging about, with noises that startled me.
dickens|to which he replied,  We dont run much into clerks, because theres only one Jaggers, and people wont have him at second hand.
dickens|A low murmur from the two replied.
dickens|But dont catch hold of me.
dickens|Dear boy!
dickens|All the uses and scents of the brewery might have evaporated with its last reek of smoke.
dickens|We drank all the wine, and Mr Pumblechook pledged himself over and over again to keep Joseph up to the mark I dont know what mark, and to render me efficient and constant service I dont know what service.
dickens|She was pale and trembling.
austen|Very true, Miss Woodhouse, so she will.
dickens|They were done with some very poor instrument, and hurriedly, with an unsteady hand.
austen|My mother often wonders that I can make it out so well.
austen|You are overscrupulous, surely.
dickens|Tellsons Bank in London, sir?
dickens|They returned home to breakfast, and all went well, and in due course the golden hair that had mingled with the poor shoemakers white locks in the Paris garret, were mingled with them again in the morning sunlight, on the threshold of the door at parting.
dickens|I so shaped out my walk as to arrive at the gate at my old time.
dickens|This was all the preparation I received for that visit, or for others like it; Miss Havisham never wrote to me, nor had I ever so much as seen her handwriting.
austen|That room was the very shape and size of the morningroom at Maple Grove; her sisters favourite room.
dickens|Yes.
dickens|John Solomon, or Solomon John?
dickens|It wouldnt put you out?
dickens|You want that sense altogether; therefore I am no more annoyed when I think of the expression, than I should be annoyed by a mans opinion of a picture of mine, who had no eye for pictures or of a piece of music of mine, who had no ear for music.
dickens|Miss Havisham, I said, when her cry had died away, you may dismiss me from your mind and conscience.
dickens|Quietly and steadily have all these arrangements made in the courtyard here, even to the taking of your own seat in the carriage.
austen|And I have hardly begun to enjoy myself.
austen|of Mr Elton.
dickens|Then, he and my sister would pair off in such nonsensical speculations about Miss Havisham, and about what she would do with me and for me, that I used to wantquite painfullyto burst into spiteful tears, fly at Pumblechook, and pummel him all over.
austen|It was gratitude; gratitude, not merely for having once loved her, but for loving her still well enough to forgive all the petulance and acrimony of her manner in rejecting him, and all the unjust accusations accompanying her rejection.
austen|Nothing can stand more retired from the road than Maple Grove.
dickens|Likewise, it seems to me that, concentrating our attention on the examination, we altogether overlook one of the best points of the animal.
dickens|The prisoners were far from insensible or unfeeling; their ways arose out of the condition of the time.
dickens|My left arm, though it presented no bad symptoms, took, in the natural course, so long to heal that I was still unable to get a coat on.
dickens|One of its names, boy.
austen|But not long was the interval of tranquillity; for, when supper was over, singing was talked of, and she had the mortification of seeing Mary, after very little entreaty, preparing to oblige the company.
dickens|he said, Pip, old chap, you knowed her when she were a fine figure of a and clasped my hand and said no more.
austen|She is a great deal too ill to be moved.
austen|The evening is closing in, and grandmama will be looking for us.
dickens|said Mr Lorry, looking steadfastly at him.
austen|Would Mr Darcy then consider the rashness of your original intentions as atoned for by your obstinacy in adhering to it?
dickens|I morbidly represented to myself that if Joe knew it, I never afterwards could see him at the fireside feeling his fair whisker, without thinking that he was meditating on it.
austen|Till you chose to turn her into a friend, her mind had no distaste for her own set, nor any ambition beyond it.
dickens|You were always in the front rank, and I was always behind.
dickens|Nno, my dear boy, said Herbert, after taking time to examine me.
austen|Some minutes passed in this unpleasant silence, with only one attempt on Emmas side to talk of the weather, but he made no answer.
dickens|No.
austen|And I, Mr Knightley, am equally stout in my confidence of its not doing them any harm.
dickens|But, he had been so careful to get it accurately, that he then spelt it with perfect correctness.
dickens|Say another wordone single wordand Wemmick shall give you your money back.
austen|Mistake you!
dickens|We have been, said Mr Wopsle, exalted with his late performance,we have been indulging, Mr Orlick, in an intellectual evening.
dickens|I was nearly going away without the pie, but I was tempted to mount upon a shelf, to look what it was that was put away so carefully in a covered earthenware dish in a corner, and I found it was the pie, and I took it in the hope that it was not intended for early use, and would not be missed for some time.
dickens|I inquired was it a large household she was going to be a member of?
austen|The idea of wanting gratitude and consideration for Miss Woodhouse, whom she really loved extremely, made her wretched for a while, and when the violence of grief was comforted away, still remained powerful enough to prompt to what was right and support her in it very tolerably.
austen|Oh!
dickens|The object of all this staring and blaring, was a young man of about fiveandtwenty, wellgrown and welllooking, with a sunburnt cheek and a dark eye.
dickens|You did, said I.
austen|He is not a gallant man, but he is a very humane one; and this, considering Jane Fairfaxs illhealth, would appear a case of humanity to him;and for an act of unostentatious kindness, there is nobody whom I would fix on more than on Mr Knightley.
dickens|I mean, I couldnt undertake to say it was at first.
dickens|Did he though?
austen|Oh!
dickens|Except that I remember them both to have beenlike myselftimorous of highwaymen, and the prisoner has not a timorous air.
austen|An hundred miles, perhaps, instead of forty.
dickens|Into the court, sir?
dickens|Whether that might be or mightnt be, is a thing as cant be looked into now, without putting your sister on the Rampage; and thats a thing not to be thought of as being done intentional.
austen|Sir William could not have interrupted two people in the room who had less to say for themselves.
austen|There was intimacy between them, and Mr Cole had heard from Mr Elton since his going away.
dickens|Of all these cries, and ten thousand incoherences, The Prisoners!
dickens|She is an Angel!
dickens|But my husband has his weaknesses, and he is so weak as to relent towards this Doctor.
dickens|No substance in it, Lucie.
austen|I am not fond of dinnervisiting, said heI never was.
dickens|I stammered yes, that was it.
dickens|If she had ever had the virtue in her, it had quite gone out of her.
dickens|Then, they are the more insolent, and it is the nearer ended.
dickens|He makes tremendous rows,roars, and pegs at the floor with some frightful instrument.
austen|I am sure I have not got one half so good.
dickens|Handel, my good fellow;though he spoke in this light tone, he was very much in earnest,I have been thinking since we have been talking with our feet on this fender, that Estella surely cannot be a condition of your inheritance, if she was never referred to by your guardian.
austen|She was on the point of continuing her walk, when she caught a glimpse of a gentleman within the sort of grove which edged the park; he was moving that way; and, fearful of its being Mr Darcy, she was directly retreating.
austen|I wonder, said he, at the next opportunity of speaking, whether he is likely to be in this country much longer.
austen|It is not a connexion to gratify; but if Mr Churchill does not feel that, why should we?
dickens|Provis in his rooms, the signal whose use was over, pretty Clara, the good motherly woman, old Bill Barley on his back, all drifting by, as on the swift stream of my life fast running out to sea!
dickens|Is that the exact substance?
austen|I was only going to observe, that though such unfortunate circumstances do sometimes occur both to men and women, I cannot imagine them to be very frequent.
dickens|But I was in a manner stupefied by this turning up of my old misdeed and old acquaintance, and could think of nothing else.
austen|If not in our dispositions, she presently added, with a look of true sensibility, there is a likeness in our destiny; the destiny which bids fair to connect us with two characters so much superior to our own.
dickens|Now, I look at you, sir, I shouldnt wonder if you might be planning and contriving to have a pleasant home of your own one of these days, when youre tired of all this work.
austen|Elizabeth, who was left by herself, now smiled at the rapidity and ease with which an affair was finally settled, that had given them so many previous months of suspense and vexation.
austen|Indeed, Mr Darcy, it is very ungenerous in you to mention all that you knew to my disadvantage in Hertfordshireand, give me leave to say, very impolitic toofor it is provoking me to retaliate, and such things may come out as will shock your relations to hear.
dickens|Punctual to my appointment, I rang at the Castle gate on the Monday morning, and was received by Wemmick himself, who struck me as looking tighter than usual, and having a sleeker hat on.
austen|But it is a pleasure to me to admire him at a distanceand to think of his infinite superiority to all the rest of the world, with the gratitude, wonder, and veneration, which are so proper, in me especially.
austen|Elizabeth immediately recognizing the livery, guessed what it meant, and imparted no small degree of her surprise to her relations by acquainting them with the honour which she expected.
austen|But do not imagine that he is always here so often.
austen|Such squeamish youths as cannot bear to be connected with a little absurdity are not worth a regret.
austen|You and papa, and my sisters, must come down and see us.
austen|Mr Collins was carefully instructing them in what they were to expect, that the sight of such rooms, so many servants, and so splendid a dinner, might not wholly overpower them.
austen|And he repeated her words with such assurance of accent, such boastful pretence of amazement, that she could not help replying with quickness,  Mr Elton, this is the most extraordinary conduct!
austen|said she, with a conscious look.
austen|My temper I dare not vouch for.
austen|Go and eat and drink a little more, and you will do very well.
dickens|What dye mean?
dickens|Im going to take a liberty with you.
dickens|The complaint had sometimes made itself audible, even in that deaf city and dumb age, that, in the narrow streets without footways, the fierce patrician custom of hard driving endangered and maimed the mere vulgar in a barbarous manner.
dickens|Being here presently denounced, he had for a time succeeded in evading the officers of Justice, but being at length seized while in the act of flight, he had resisted them, and hadhe best knew whether by express design, or in the blindness of his hardihoodcaused the death of his denouncer, to whom his whole career was known.
dickens|I dozed off, myself, in considering the question whether I ought to restore a couple of pounds sterling to this creature before losing sight of him, and how it could best be done.
dickens|Speak then!
austen|Seriously, however, she felt tolerably persuaded that all this must have taken place with that gentlemans concurrence.
austen|I will read it to you  When my brother left us yesterday, he imagined that the business which took him to London might be concluded in three or four days; but as we are certain it cannot be so, and at the same time convinced that when Charles gets to town he will be in no hurry to leave it again, we have determined on following him thither, that he may not be obliged to spend his vacant hours in a comfortless hotel.
dickens|Before this rumour, the crowd gradually melted away, and perhaps the Guards came, and perhaps they never came, and this was the usual progress of a mob.
dickens|Lucky for you then, Handel, said Herbert, that you are picked out for her and allotted to her.
dickens|Why need I speak of my fathers time, when it is equally yours?
dickens|Make haste up, Millers.
dickens|Then, a flickering streak played behind the architecture of the front, picking out transparent places, and showing where balustrades, arches, and windows were.
dickens|across the court and up the stairs, I thought of that eventful Christmas Day when he had carried me over the marshes.
austen|You will have my sketches, some time or other, to look ator my tour to reador my poem.
austen|She inquired after his sister, but could do no more.
dickens|and we both went out to the drawbridge.
dickens|Until then, though no one was ever presented to her consciousness save the woman and myself, one or other of them had always jealously sat behind the curtain at the head of the bed when I was there.
dickens|The only consideration that appeared to affect the mind of either of them was the consideration that this was highly degrading to the family, and was ridiculous.
dickens|And you will see how truly I spoke of myself just now, in saying I had no feelings, and that all the relations I hold with my fellowcreatures are mere business relations, when you reflect that I have never seen you since.
austen|Miss Woodhouse must excuse me.
austen|Mystery; Finessehow they pervert the understanding!
austen|What a stroke was this for poor Jane!
dickens|I therefore told him my small story, and laid stress on my being forbidden to inquire who my benefactor was.
dickens|Gone deaf in an hour?
austen|A great deal of very reasonable, very just displeasure I had to persuade away.
austen|That is very likely.
austen|He placed himself by her.
dickens|Its more than that, then, said Joe.
dickens|The ringing of a distant bell, combined with the echoing of some cry or call along the passage by which I had come, interrupted the conversation and caused Estella to say to me, Now, boy!
austen|But Bingley has great natural modesty, with a stronger dependence on my judgement than on his own.
dickens|Now, I come to the cruel part of the story,merely breaking off, my dear Handel, to remark that a dinnernapkin will not go into a tumbler.
austen|This has been my motive, my fair cousin, and I flatter myself it will not sink me in your esteem.
dickens|One of the first considerations which arose in the business mind of Mr Lorry when business hours came round, was thisthat he had no right to imperil Tellsons by sheltering the wife of an emigrant prisoner under the Bank roof.
austen|What, is he coming home, and without poor Lydia?
dickens|I am not at all alarmed.
dickens|said Defarge, clapping him on the back when it was over, like a patron; you are a good boy!
austen|But no such happy marriage could now teach the admiring multitude what connubial felicity really was.
dickens|What shall I do!
austen|I was in the middle before I knew that I had begun.
dickens|The postmaster interposed himself between this man and the riders bridle at which he was evidently making, and soothingly said, Let him be; let him be!
dickens|Soon raising his head again, he struck twice or thrice upon the doorevidently with no other object than to make a noise there.
dickens|he said, I am not worth such feeling, Miss Manette.
dickens|While we waited at the gate, I peeped in even then Mr Pumblechook said, And fourteen?
dickens|We walked round the ruined garden twice or thrice more, and it was all in bloom for me.
austen|I hope there was.
austen|Harriet bore the intelligence very wellblaming nobodyand in every thing testifying such an ingenuousness of disposition and lowly opinion of herself, as must appear with particular advantage at that moment to her friend.
austen|Oh, yes!
dickens|And what could I possibly do then, but say I was enjoying myself,when I wasnt!
dickens|My involuntary start occasioned her to lay her hand upon my arm.
austen|But pridewhere there is a real superiority of mind, pride will be always under good regulation.
dickens|As I was saying  Her look so discomposed him that he stopped, wandered, and began anew  As I was saying; if Monsieur Manette had not died; if he had suddenly and silently disappeared; if he had been spirited away; if it had not been difficult to guess to what dreadful place, though no art could trace him; if he had an enemy in some compatriot who could exercise a privilege that I in my own time have known the boldest people afraid to speak of in a whisper, across the water there; for instance, the privilege of filling up blank forms for the consignment of any one to the oblivion of a prison for any length of time; if his wife had implored the king, the queen, the court, the clergy, for any tidings of him, and all quite in vain;then the history of your father would have been the history of this unfortunate gentleman, the Doctor of Beauvais.
dickens|The carriage stopped as soon as the driver could rein in his horses, and the same voice called to me by my name.
austen|He had ruined for a while every hope of happiness for the most affectionate, generous heart in the world; and no one could say how lasting an evil he might have inflicted.
austen|And will you promise me, never to enter into such an engagement?
austen|She would not betray her trust, I suppose, without bribery and corruption, for she really did know where her friend was to be found.
dickens|the chemist whistled softly, as he read it.
dickens|If its not in any way disagreeable to you, youll oblige me by doing the same.
austen|I am very sensible, madam, of the hardship to my fair cousins, and could say much on the subject, but that I am cautious of appearing forward and precipitate.
dickens|No, father, said Lucie, yearning and weeping as she kissed her hand, no.
dickens|And she is of so aristocratic a disposition  Yes, maam, I said again, with the same object as before.
austen|But whatever may be the sentiments which Mr Wickham has created, a suspicion of their nature shall not prevent me from unfolding his real characterit adds even another motive.
dickens|O God bless this gentle Christian man!
austen|Her astonishment, however, was extreme, and continually was she repeating, Why is he so altered?
dickens|Yes it were.
austen|I pity you, Miss Eliza, for this discovery of your favourites guilt; but really, considering his descent, one could not expect much better.
dickens|I have known this, night and day, since I have known you in your home.
austen|Mr Bennet missed his second daughter exceedingly; his affection for her drew him oftener from home than anything else could do.
austen|Yours, etc.
austen|Mrs Westons communications furnished Emma with more food for unpleasant reflection, by increasing her esteem and compassion, and her sense of past injustice towards Miss Fairfax.
dickens|Joe sat and rolled his eyes at the ceiling.
austen|Elizabeth could not help saying, It is very much to his credit, I am sure, that you should think so.
austen|There is no danger of Wickhams marrying Mary King.
dickens|Then he let himself down again, and became silent.
austen|I have already met with such success in two applications for pardon, that I may be in danger of thinking myself too sure of yours, and of those among your friends who have had any ground of offence.
dickens|and Co.
dickens|You deliberately advise me not to go up to Soho and offer myselfmyself, Stryver of the Kings Bench bar?
austen|She felt the engagement to be a source of repentance and misery to each she dissolved it.
austen|I must go instantly to my mother; she cried.
dickens|I know nothing of it.
dickens|Anything you like.
dickens|The task of recalling him from the vagrancy into which he always sank when he had spoken, was like recalling some very weak person from a swoon, or endeavouring, in the hope of some disclosure, to stay the spirit of a fastdying man.
dickens|About.
dickens|With his straw in his mouth, Mr Cruncher sat watching the two streams, like the heathen rustic who has for several centuries been on duty watching one streamsaving that Jerry had no expectation of their ever running dry.
austen|They descended the hill, crossed the bridge, and drove to the door; and, while examining the nearer aspect of the house, all her apprehension of meeting its owner returned.
austen|But we are all liable to error.
dickens|I was beginning to express my gratitude to my benefactor for the great liberality with which I was treated, when Mr Jaggers stopped me.
austen|You will not thank me for detaining you from the bewitching converse of that young lady, whose bright eyes are also upbraiding me.
austen|Sir, said Mr Woodhouse, rather warmly, you are very much mistaken if you suppose Mr Perry to be that sort of character.
dickens|You are as good as another, I have no doubt better, I dare say.
dickens|Dear Joe, have you heard what becomes of her property?
dickens|said the other, in the same low voice.
austen|Jane and I quite ready.
austen|You have.
dickens|What the devil do you do in that galley there?
dickens|In the dead of the night.
dickens|But prominent in it was a draped table with a gilded lookingglass, and that I made out at first sight to be a fine ladys dressingtable.
dickens|I held her hand to my lips some lingering moments, and so I left her.
dickens|None.
dickens|Biddy quietly asked me, after a pause.
dickens|O yes, he returned, these are all gifts of that kind.
dickens|What is your name, my gentle angel?
austen|She would be very glad to stay.
dickens|His hold on life was strong, and it was very, very hard, to loosen; by gradual efforts and degrees unclosed a little here, it clenched the tighter there; and when he brought his strength to bear on that hand and it yielded, this was closed again.
austen|If Mr and Mrs Weston will be so obliging as to call here one morning, we may talk it over, and see what can be done.
dickens|Goodbye, Pip!
dickens|Deep would have been the blot upon his escutcheon if his chocolate had been ignobly waited on by only three men; he must have died of two.
dickens|Besides these Dervishes, were other three who had rushed into another sect, which mended matters with a jargon about the Centre of Truth holding that Man had got out of the Centre of Truthwhich did not need much demonstrationbut had not got out of the Circumference, and that he was to be kept from flying out of the Circumference, and was even to be shoved back into the Centre, by fasting and seeing of spirits.
dickens|What relation is she to Miss Havisham?
dickens|He stuck the paper on a file, in an illhumour, and Charles Darnay awaited his further pleasure for half an hour sometimes, pacing to and fro in the strong arched room sometimes, resting on a stone seat in either case detained to be imprinted on the memory of the chief and his subordinates.
dickens|I can bear anything but the uncertainty you leave me in at this moment.
austen|There is but one part of my conduct in the whole affair on which I do not reflect with satisfaction; it is that I condescended to adopt the measures of art so far as to conceal from him your sisters being in town.
austen|This is no very striking resemblance of your own character, I am sure,  said he.
dickens|Above a heap of dust and ashes in the court, ran the letters National Property.
dickens|I know you do, said the stranger; I knew you would.
dickens|Twice?
dickens|Since I knew you, I have been troubled by a remorse that I thought would never reproach me again, and have heard whispers from old voices impelling me upward, that I thought were silent for ever.
austen|How are you all?
austen|I believe you did not hear me telling the others in the drawingroom that we are expecting Frank.
dickens|It has died in a moment without pain.
austen|They vindicated him against the base aspersion.
austen|It is too smallwants strength.
dickens|Cartons negligent recklessness of manner came powerfully in aid of his quickness and skill, in such a business as he had in his secret mind, and with such a man as he had to do with.
austen|She looks sickly and cross.
dickens|You get along to bed; youve given trouble enough for one night, I hope!
austen|This observation would not have prevented her from trying to talk to the latter, had they not been seated at an inconvenient distance; but she was not sorry to be spared the necessity of saying much.
dickens|Driven home into the heart of the stone figure attached to it, was a knife.
austen|Emma thanked him, but could not allow of his disappointing his friend on their account; her father was sure of his rubber.
austen|He could not be satisfied without a promisewould not she give him her influence in procuring it?
dickens|Eat and drink, I says; if youll find the materials.
dickens|But Mrs Pocket was at home, and was in a little difficulty, on account of the babys having been accommodated with a needlecase to keep him quiet during the unaccountable absence with a relative in the Foot Guards of Millers.
dickens|There, there, there!
austen|This was all sent with the instrument.
dickens|When is it dated?
dickens|But I think she did not.
dickens|said she again; and each time she said it, she opened her lovely eyes the wider.
austen|I could never hope to equal my own doings at Randalls.
austen|He took the hint, and when Mary had finished her second song, said aloud, That will do extremely well, child.
dickens|The way by which we approached it took us past the Three Jolly Bargemen, which we were surprised to findit being eleven oclockin a state of commotion, with the door wide open, and unwonted lights that had been hastily caught up and put down scattered about.
dickens|Is it the immediate object of this confidence, that you may at once ascertain that, with my knowledge?
dickens|Mr Cruncher beguiled the earlier watches of the night with solitary pipes, and did not start upon his excursion until nearly one oclock.
austen|Bless me!
austen|The postoffice is a wonderful establishment!
austen|And Mr Weston at the same time, walking briskly with long steps through the passage, was calling out,  You talk a great deal of the length of this passage, my dear.
austen|I do assure you that I am not one of those young ladies if such young ladies there are who are so daring as to risk their happiness on the chance of being asked a second time.
austen|Nor was Darcys vindication, though grateful to her feelings, capable of consoling her for such discovery.
dickens|He was arrested by the quick arrival of another man, for whom the rest made way.
austen|At first there seemed danger of Lydias engrossing him entirely, for she was a most determined talker; but being likewise extremely fond of lottery tickets, she soon grew too much interested in the game, too eager in making bets and exclaiming after prizes to have attention for anyone in particular.
dickens|Seven?
dickens|He had not returned sooner, he replied, simply because he had no means of living in France, save those he had resigned; whereas, in England, he lived by giving instruction in the French language and literature.
austen|And he wrote as if he really loved her very muchbut she did not knowand so, she was come as fast as she could to ask Miss Woodhouse what she should do.
austen|Every kind of pride must revolt from the connection.
austen|They met readily and smiling, but with a consciousness which at first allowed little to be said; and having all sat down again, there was for some time such a blank in the circle, that Emma began to doubt whether the wish now indulged, which she had long felt, of seeing Frank Churchill once more, and of seeing him with Jane, would yield its proportion of pleasure.
dickens|; but, on being more carefully examined, the last letter was found to be G.
dickens|It wasnt for myself I took it!
dickens|O, shes gone!
austen|He who, she had been persuaded, would avoid her as his greatest enemy, seemed, on this accidental meeting, most eager to preserve the acquaintance, and without any indelicate display of regard, or any peculiarity of manner, where their two selves only were concerned, was soliciting the good opinion of her friends, and bent on making her known to his sister.
austen|Again she read on; but every line proved more clearly that the affair, which she had believed it impossible that any contrivance could so represent as to render Mr Darcys conduct in it less than infamous, was capable of a turn which must make him entirely blameless throughout the whole.
austen|Mr Knightley returned to his reading with greater alacrity.
dickens|Whether it had been born alive, or the poor mothers shock had killed it.
dickens|He was a burly man of an exceedingly dark complexion, with an exceedingly large head, and a corresponding large hand.
austen|He came back, had had his hair cut, and laughed at himself with a very good grace, but without seeming really at all ashamed of what he had done.
dickens|But, from the hour when she had taken the white head to her fresh young bosom in the garret of Saint Antoine, she had been true to her duties.
dickens|Mr Lorry and Charles Darnay were left alone at the desk, in the general departure from the Bank.
dickens|and we were all but cheered.
austen|But that gentleman, looking at Darcy, seemed to think the country was nothing at all.
dickens|I keep no money here; but if you would rather Mr Jaggers knew nothing of the matter, I will send it to you.
dickens|But how much would you tell him, Herbert?
austen|Her own fathers perfect exemption from any thought of the kind, the entire deficiency in him of all such sort of penetration or suspicion, was a most comfortable circumstance.
dickens|I foresaw what was coming, and I felt that this time I really was gone.
dickens|You have money, and can buy the means of travelling to the seacoast as quickly as the journey can be made.
dickens|Her uncertainty lasted but a moment; she hurried back, and tapped at his door, and softly called to him.
austen|How he lived I know not.
dickens|On the whole we deemed it the better course to lie where we were, until within an hour or so of the steamers time, and then to get out in her track, and drift easily with the tide.
dickens|She always were quick, observed Joe.
dickens|What he did on those occasions was to turn up his cuffs, stick up his hair, and give us Mark Antonys oration over the body of Caesar.
dickens|said Mr Cruncher.
austen|A house of her own!
austen|They separated too much into parties.
austen|Harriet was soon back again, and the proposal almost immediately made; and she had no scruples which could stand many minutes against the earnest pressing of both the others.
austen|Indeed I must say that, much as I had heard of him before and much as I had expected, he very far exceeds any thing....
austen|Her keenest attention was awakened; she longed to hear more, and was grateful to her uncle for saying  There are very few people of whom so much can be said.
dickens|Mike looked hard at my guardian, as if he were trying to learn a lesson from his face, and slowly replied, Ayther to character, or to having been in his company and never left him all the night in question.
austen|I really cannot venture to name her salary to you, Miss Woodhouse.
austen|She had already learnt that Lady Catherine was still in the country.
austen|They might all have hoped to rise by Harriets acquaintance and besides, what was the value of Harriets description?
dickens|You know he is Miss Havishams man of business and solicitor, and has her confidence when nobody else has?
dickens|Nor Biddy aint.
austen|I never was equal to this.
dickens|I thought and hoped you could not mean it.
dickens|She would rather I did not travel alone, and objects to receiving my maid, for she has a sensitive horror of being talked of by such people.
dickens|Every hour so increased my abhorrence of him, that I even think I might have yielded to this impulse in the first agonies of being so haunted, notwithstanding all he had done for me and the risk he ran, but for the knowledge that Herbert must soon come back.
austen|She often says, when the letter is first opened, Well, Hetty, now I think you will be put to it to make out all that checkerworkdont you, maam?
dickens|Mr Wopsle, as the illrequited uncle of the evenings tragedy, fell to meditating aloud in his garden at Camberwell.
austen|As you do us such ample justice now, said Emma, laughing, I will venture to ask, whether you did not come a little doubtfully at first?
dickens|As I was not able to cut my dinner, the old landlord with a shining bald head did it for me.
austen|With this answer Elizabeth was forced to be content; but her own opinion continued the same, and she left him disappointed and sorry.
dickens|You cant have chawed it, Pip.
dickens|Mr Stryver sucked the end of a ruler for a little while, and then stood hitting a tune out of his teeth with it, which probably gave him the toothache.
dickens|No, said he, with a glance of surprise who else should there be?
dickens|When will you come to London?
dickens|asked the gentleman of that name.
austen|Two such could never be granted.
dickens|Yes, madame, answered Mr Lorry; this is our poor prisoners darling daughter, and only child.
austen|I assure you, I feel it exceedingly, said Lady Catherine; I believe no one feels the loss of friends so much as I do.
dickens|When I had been in Mr Pockets family a month or two, Mr and Mrs Camilla turned up.
austen|She says Lizzy had better have taken Mr Collins; but I do not think there would have been any fun in it.
dickens|It was dated from La Force, within an hour.
austen|On entering the drawingroom she found the whole party at loo, and was immediately invited to join them; but suspecting them to be playing high she declined it, and making her sister the excuse, said she would amuse herself for the short time she could stay below, with a book.
dickens|My conscience was not by any means comfortable about Biddy.
austen|In respectability of character, there can be no doubt that they are.
austen|It was not till the afternoon, when he had joined them at tea, that Elizabeth ventured to introduce the subject; and then, on her briefly expressing her sorrow for what he must have endured, he replied, Say nothing of that.
dickens|asked Mr Lorry, in his business character.
dickens|Pull both.
austen|that ball!
austen|Well, said Emma, I suppose we shall gradually grow reconciled to the idea, and I wish them very happy.
austen|And, my dear Jane, I never saw you look in greater beauty.
dickens|He told me that he believed himself to have gone under the keel of the steamer, and to have been struck on the head in rising.
dickens|No, said I, thats not it.
austen|With the kindest concern he came on to Longbourn, and broke his apprehensions to us in a manner most creditable to his heart.
austen|They were certainly no friends to his acquaintance with me, which I cannot wonder at, since he might have chosen so much more advantageously in many respects.
dickens|Ah!
austen|No one but Mrs Bennet regretted that their stay would be so short; and she made the most of the time by visiting about with her daughter, and having very frequent parties at home.
austen|You spent the evening with Mrs Elton?
dickens|And the profits are large?
austen|In one point she was fully justified.
dickens|Good.
dickens|I have walked two nights without resting.
dickens|Dress was the one unfailing talisman and charm used for keeping all things in their places.
austen|A boyish scheme, indeed!
dickens|Difficult as it is in a large city to avoid the suspicion of being watched, when the mind is conscious of danger in that regard, I could not persuade myself that any of the people within sight cared about my movements.
dickens|I left a note for you at each of the Temple gates, on the chance.
dickens|It elicited an answering chorus of Good day!
austen|Harriet is my superior in all the charm and all the felicity it gives.
dickens|Such a scanty portion of light was admitted through these means, that it was difficult, on first coming in, to see anything; and long habit alone could have slowly formed in any one, the ability to do any work requiring nicety in such obscurity.
austen|I had imagined you were consulting me only as to the wording of it.
dickens|The cold wind seemed to blow colder there than outside the gate; and it made a shrill noise in howling in and out at the open sides of the brewery, like the noise of wind in the rigging of a ship at sea.
austen|It was rather small, but well built and convenient; and everything was fitted up and arranged with a neatness and consistency of which Elizabeth gave Charlotte all the credit.
dickens|Of course, it has been kept for you.
dickens|What do you want to conwey to your own father, you young Rip?
austen|Never had his wit been directed in a manner so little agreeable to her.
austen|They look upon it as quite their own, I dare say, whenever that happens.
austen|What!
austen|It is not likely you should ever have observed him; but he knows you very well indeedI mean by sight.
dickens|Ladybird has learnt to know then that his mind is walking up and down, walking up and down, in his old prison.
austen|Of the lady, individually, Emma thought very little.
austen|Here am I come down for only one day, and you are engaged with a dinnerparty!
austen|Her next beginning was,  In one respect, perhaps, Mr Eltons manners are superior to Mr Knightleys or Mr Westons.
dickens|Now, Mum, with respections to this boy!
dickens|By slow degrees the weight broke away the earth upon it, and came to the surface.
dickens|Do me the favour to recall that I told you so, long ago.
dickens|The virtuous servant, Roger Cly, swore his way through the case at a great rate.
dickens|I got your letter and destroyed it.
dickens|This was in allusion to its heavy black seal and border.
dickens|Once round?
dickens|I ought rather to write that I should have been alarmed if I had had energy and concentration enough to help me to the clear perception of any truth beyond the fact that I was falling very ill.
dickens|There, I was roused by Mr Pumblechooks hailing me.
dickens|Mr Herbert, said Wemmick, after being all of a heap for half an hour, struck out a plan.
austen|And yet she was a happy woman, and a woman whom no one named without goodwill.
dickens|That was made apparent by our avoidance of the subject, and by our agreeingwithout agreementto make my recovery of the use of my hands a question of so many hours, not of so many weeks.
austen|Elizabeth looked with unaffected astonishment.
austen|No; not immediately here.
austen|He is nothing to us, you know, and I am sure I never want to see him again.
dickens|This was all as it should be, and I went out in my new array, fearfully ashamed of having to pass the shopman, and suspicious after all that I was at a personal disadvantage, something like Joes in his Sunday suit.
austen|But the morrow passed off much better than she expected; for Mrs Bennet luckily stood in such awe of her intended soninlaw that she ventured not to speak to him, unless it was in her power to offer him any attention, or mark her deference for his opinion.
dickens|My sister went out to get it.
austen|Mr Eltons superiority had very ample acknowledgment.
austen|Ah!
austen|The visit was soon returned in due form.
dickens|Are you going out?
dickens|Much comforted by these considerations, I thanked Wemmick again and again, and begged him to proceed.
dickens|But you will not be able to see him, my poor child, and even if you could, it would be unsafe for you to make a sign of recognition.
austen|He assured her, that as to dancing, he was perfectly indifferent to it; that his chief object was by delicate attentions to recommend himself to her and that he should therefore make a point of remaining close to her the whole evening.
dickens|That matter of Herberts was still progressing, and everything with me was as I have brought it down to the close of the last preceding chapter.
dickens|All this time Mrs Joe and Joe were briskly clearing the table for the pie and pudding.
dickens|Carton asked.
austen|And even when it was settled that Lydia should go with Mrs Forster, the necessity of opening her eyes to his character never occurred to me.
dickens|No, you wicked foreign woman; I am your match.
austen|A few minutes more, and Emma hoped to see one troublesome companion deposited in his own house, to get sober and cool, and the other recover his temper and happiness when this visit of hardship were over.
austen|The unpersuadable point, which he did not mention, Emma guessed to be good behaviour to his father.
austen|The five weeks which she had now passed in Kent had made a great difference in the country, and every day was adding to the verdure of the early trees.
dickens|It was another and a stronger woman who was the victim, and there had been a strugglein a barn.
austen|What!
austen|This point was just arranged, when a visitor arrived to tear Emmas thoughts a little from the one subject which had engrossed them, sleeping or waking, the last twentyfour hoursMrs Weston, who had been calling on her daughterinlaw elect, and took Hartfield in her way home, almost as much in duty to Emma as in pleasure to herself, to relate all the particulars of so interesting an interview.
austen|From Mr Collins!
austen|But I cannot imagine how I could be so off my guard.
dickens|said he, coming back.
austen|But his spirits were soon rising again, and with laughing eyes, after mentioning the expected return of the Campbells, he named the name of Dixon.
austen|His good friend Perry, too, whom he had spoken to on the subject, did not at present recollect any thing of the riddle kind; but he had desired Perry to be upon the watch, and as he went about so much, something, he thought, might come from that quarter.
dickens|Well, Mr Stryver, I was about to sayit might be painful to you to find yourself mistaken, it might be painful to Doctor Manette to have the task of being explicit with you, it might be very painful to Miss Manette to have the task of being explicit with you.
austen|That is ship;plain as it can be.
dickens|This time, I made the tour of Little Britain, and turned into Bartholomew Close; and now I became aware that other people were waiting about for Mr Jaggers, as well as I.
dickens|Since last night he had taken nothing but a little light thin wine, and last night he had dropped the brandy slowly down on Mr Lorrys hearth like a man who had done with it.
dickens|Mike looked at his cap, and looked at the floor, and looked at the ceiling, and looked at the clerk, and even looked at me, before beginning to reply in a nervous manner, Weve dressed him up like  when my guardian blustered out,  What?
dickens|I answered, as my bitter tears fell fast on her hand, do what I would to restrain them; even if I remained in England and could hold my head up with the rest, how could I see you Drummles wife?
austen|He wanted to marry well, and having the arrogance to raise his eyes to her, pretended to be in love; but she was perfectly easy as to his not suffering any disappointment that need be cared for.
dickens|I observed, as Joe waited for me to speak.
austen|She looked up at him for a moment, coloured deeply, and played something else.
dickens|How should a repetition of it be treated?
dickens|Good!
austen|You will be perfectly safe, you know, among your friends.
dickens|This, however, was a mere question of length and wearisomeness.
dickens|Well, Pip, said Joe, taking up the poker, and settling himself to his usual occupation when he was thoughtful, of slowly raking the fire between the lower bars; Ill tell you.
dickens|It would be blame to me and not praise, if I had.
dickens|Without it, can I not save you, Mr Carton?
austen|Let me hear from you very soon.
dickens|What next!
dickens|He made extraordinary play with it, and showed the greatest skill; now, rushing at it and catching it neatly as it dropped; now, merely stopping it midway, beating it up, and humoring it in various parts of the room and against a good deal of the pattern of the paper on the wall, before he felt it safe to close with it; finally splashing it into the slopbasin, where I took the liberty of laying hands upon it.
austen|how he must have felt it!
austen|But if we do not venture somebody else will; and after all, Mrs Long and her neices must stand their chance; and, therefore, as she will think it an act of kindness, if you decline the office, I will take it on myself.
dickens|As soon as this volume began to circulate, Mr Wopsles greataunt fell into a state of coma, arising either from sleep or a rheumatic paroxysm.
dickens|said Biddy, quietly raising her eyebrows; I am sorry for that; I didnt mean to be.
dickens|He did not begin, but, in his indecision, met her glance.
austen|But she is nothing to me now.
dickens|I wound up by laying my hand upon his shoulder, and saying, I cant help confiding in you, though I know it must be troublesome to you; but that is your fault, in having ever brought me here.
dickens|So he got into his place, still making complaints, and the keeper got into the place next him, and the convicts hauled themselves up as well as they could, and the convict I had recognized sat behind me with his breath on the hair of my head.
dickens|They were as silent, however, as the men.
dickens|He said not a word, however, and Miss Pross, exploring the depths of her reticule through her tears with great difficulty paid for her wine.
dickens|I was speaking of Provis.
dickens|As his doing the one or the other was a mere question of time, he and Mrs Pocket had taken Time by the forelock when, to judge from its length, it would seem to have wanted cutting, and had married without the knowledge of the judicious parent.
austen|Mr Wickhams chief object was unquestionably my sisters fortune, which is thirty thousand pounds; but I cannot help supposing that the hope of revenging himself on me was a strong inducement.
dickens|The night was as dark by this time as it would be until morning; and what light we had, seemed to come more from the river than the sky, as the oars in their dipping struck at a few reflected stars.
dickens|Let us be reasonable, said the spy, and let us be fair.
austen|She still cherished a very tender affection for Bingley.
dickens|My state of mind, as I have described it, began before I was up in the morning, and lasted long after the subject had died out, and had ceased to be mentioned saving on exceptional occasions.
austen|The older a person grows, Harriet, the more important it is that their manners should not be bad; the more glaring and disgusting any loudness, or coarseness, or awkwardness becomes.
austen|Mr Gardiner was a sensible, gentlemanlike man, greatly superior to his sister, as well by nature as education.
austen|Jane took Mrs Elton aside, and told her at once, that upon thinking over the advantages of Mrs Smallridges situation, she had come to the resolution of accepting it.
dickens|What I said was low; thats what it was; low.
austen|She knew not the exact degree of his affection for his aunt, or his dependence on her judgment, but it was natural to suppose that he thought much higher of her ladyship than she could do; and it was certain that, in enumerating the miseries of a marriage with one, whose immediate connections were so unequal to his own, his aunt would address him on his weakest side.
dickens|Yes, sir.
austen|I will go directly to Mr Bennet, and we shall very soon settle it with her, I am sure.
austen|It was his idea to bring her to Hartfield he had thought of no other place.
dickens|And so, said Mr Lorry, who could not sufficiently admire the bride, and who had been moving round her to take in every point of her quiet, pretty dress; and so it was for this, my sweet Lucie, that I brought you across the Channel, such a baby!
dickens|Well, Pip, returned Joe, slowly considering.
austen|Seven miles were travelled in expectation of enjoyment, and every body had a burst of admiration on first arriving; but in the general amount of the day there was deficiency.
austen|They have more gentleness.
dickens|And why was Old Orlick there?
austen|and have you actually found happiness in treasuring up these things?
dickens|Yes, Joe.
dickens|And now, dear Biddy, if you can tell me that you will go through the world with me, you will surely make it a better world for me, and me a better man for it, and I will try hard to make it a better world for you.
austen|Her thoughts were instantly driven back to the time when Mr Bingleys name had been the last mentioned between them; and, if she might judge by his complexion, his mind was not very differently engaged.
austen|And of this place, thought she, I might have been mistress!
dickens|I doubt if they durst spare him after the demonstration in the court.
austen|The iron gates and the frontdoor were not twenty yards asunder;they were all three soon in the hall, and Harriet immediately sinking into a chair fainted away.
austen|I cannot misunderstand you, but I entreat you, dear Lizzy, not to pain me by thinking that person to blame, and saying your opinion of him is sunk.
austen|Most favourably for his nephewgave his consent with scarcely a difficulty.
dickens|I was liberally paid for my old attendance here, I said, to soothe her, in being apprenticed, and I have asked these questions only for my own information.
austen|I roused, and interested you, because I was so unlike them.
austen|Because honour, decorum, prudence, nay, interest, forbid it.
austen|I should not attempt it, if it were to be the means of inconvenience to the Highbury people, but if you call to mind exactly the present line of the path....
austen|I beg you will not let your neighbours follow your example.
dickens|I only want you to do well, and to be comfortable.
dickens|Without mentioning any names or going into any details, I gave him to understand that if he was aware of anybodyTom, Jack, or Richardbeing about the chambers, or about the immediate neighborhood, he had better get Tom, Jack, or Richard out of the way while you were out of the way.
dickens|When at last he stopped outside our door, I could hear his finger tracing over the painted letters of my name, and I afterwards distinctly heard him breathing in at the keyhole.
dickens|Not even by the dearest one ever to be known to you?
dickens|But, I could not be sure of this unconsciousness on Mr Jaggerss part before, though I was quite sure of it now.
dickens|Have you written forget them?
austen|People who suffer as I do from nervous complaints can have no great inclination for talking.
austen|Nonsense, errant nonsense, as ever was talked!
dickens|said Stryver.
dickens|Troubled as the future was, it was the unknown future, and in its obscurity there was ignorant hope.
dickens|Look at these here lodgings oyourn, fit for a lord!
dickens|Headlong, mad, and dangerous footsteps to force their way into anybodys life, footsteps not easily made clean again if once stained red, the footsteps raging in Saint Antoine afar off, as the little circle sat in the dark London window.
dickens|Im famous for it.
dickens|In an armchair, with an elbow resting on the table and her head leaning on that hand, sat the strangest lady I have ever seen, or shall ever see.
dickens|I know very well that you can have no tenderness for me; I ask for none; I am even thankful that it cannot be.
austen|The manner, perhaps, may have as little to recommend them.
dickens|And although my sister instantly boxed my ears, it was highly gratifying to me to see that the answer spoilt his joke, and brought him to a dead stop.
dickens|My guardian was in his room, washing his hands with his scented soap, when I went into the office from Walworth; and he called me to him, and gave me the invitation for myself and friends which Wemmick had prepared me to receive.
austen|While thus engaged, Elizabeth had a fair opportunity of deciding whether she most feared or wished for the appearance of Mr Darcy, by the feelings which prevailed on his entering the room; and then, though but a moment before she had believed her wishes to predominate, she began to regret that he came.
dickens|Perhaps.
dickens|Laying the palest shadow of a stress upon the second word.
dickens|As for example; on the question whether twas nobler in the mind to suffer, some roared yes, and some no, and some inclining to both opinions said Toss up for it; and quite a Debating Society arose.
austen|Was not she the whole day with you?
dickens|Charles Evremonde, called Darnay.
dickens|All the people within reach had suspended their business, or their idleness, to run to the spot and drink the wine.
dickens|Her shoes came up at the heel, her hair grew bright and neat, her hands were always clean.
austen|I have scarce had the pleasure of seeing you, Miss Woodhouse, she shortly afterwards began, since the party to Box Hill.
dickens|And any one could see that he shook with fear, and that there broke out upon his lips curious white flakes, like thin snow.
austen|Emma was very willing now to acquit her of having seduced Mr Dixons actions from his wife, or of any thing mischievous which her imagination had suggested at first.
austen|Miss Hawkins was the youngest of the two daughters of a Bristolmerchant, of course, he must be called; but, as the whole of the profits of his mercantile life appeared so very moderate, it was not unfair to guess the dignity of his line of trade had been very moderate also.
dickens|I have observed his face to be not the face of a true friend of the Republic.
dickens|Ah!
dickens|said Defarge, with a half complaining and half apologetic shrug.
dickens|Mr Lorry ventured to ask.
dickens|I suspect that I am watched more closely than I was, and I know not at what times I may be watched.
austen|Here, Sarah, come to Miss Bennet this moment, and help her on with her gown.
dickens|And whats the best of all, he said, youve been more comfortable alonger me, since I was under a dark cloud, than when the sun shone.
austen|Mrs Weston was afraid of draughts for the young people in that passage; and neither Emma nor the gentlemen could tolerate the prospect of being miserably crowded at supper.
austen|You showed me how insufficient were all my pretensions to please a woman worthy of being pleased.
dickens|Where was his property?
austen|It is one that I shall never change, however.
dickens|Yes.
austen|I think it is the state of mind which gives most spirit and delight.
dickens|Mr Cruncher, with the basket, walked at her side.
austen|Miss Woodhouse, we all know at times what it is to be wearied in spirits.
dickens|How?
dickens|said he.
austen|Upon the whole, she was equally contented with her view of his feelings.
dickens|Be just to me.
dickens|Ah!
dickens|Without encroaching on forbidden ground, we may venture to say that there can be no doubt between ourselves of that fact.
dickens|Are you aware, or are you not aware, that none of these witnesses have yet been crossexamined?
dickens|As the question had no bearing, near or remote, on any foregone or subsequent transaction, I consider it to have been thrown out, like her previous approaches, in general conversational condescension.
austen|That was the kind action; that was the noble benevolence and generosity; that was the service which made me begin to feel how superior he was to every other being upon earth.
austen|To speak, she was sure would be to betray a most unreasonable degree of happiness.
austen|Whether Miss Woodhouse began really to understand me before the expiration of that fortnight, I cannot say;when I called to take leave of her, I remember that I was within a moment of confessing the truth, and I then fancied she was not without suspicion; but I have no doubt of her having since detected me, at least in some degree.
dickens|There were twentythree names, but only twenty were responded to; for one of the prisoners so summoned had died in gaol and been forgotten, and two had already been guillotined and forgotten.
austen|You are not afraid of being supposed ashamed.
austen|You will allow me to bring Jane Fairfax?
dickens|Youre right, said Wemmick; its the genuine look.
dickens|Could a repetition of it be prevented?
austen|But as she wanted to be drawing, the declaration must wait a little longer.
dickens|Why have you set upon me in the dark?
austen|Do not imagine me ignorant of their condition.
austen|Her face was averted from those who had made the attack, and turned towards her aunt.
dickens|I could think of nothing better to say than I am glad you think so, Joe.
dickens|But, madame sat all day at her counter, so expressly unconscious of him, and so particularly determined not to perceive that his being there had any connection with anything below the surface, that he shook in his wooden shoes whenever his eye lighted on her.
dickens|I ask none, sir.
austen|I am particularly glad to see and shake hands with youand to give you joy in person.
dickens|said Herbert.
austen|All the rest, in speculation at least, was perfectly smooth.
dickens|Decidedly.
austen|She had no objection.
austen|Oh, Lord!
austen|The hair was curled, and the maid sent away, and Emma sat down to think and be miserable.
dickens|Within a single year all this was changed.
dickens|You may, said he, and I may decline to answer it.
dickens|The other, with an effort at a scornful smile, which could not, however, collect the nervous working of his mouth into any set expression, looked at the soldiers, and looked about at the marshes and at the sky, but certainly did not look at the speaker.
austen|She was feeling too much; but at last Emma collected from her enough to understand the sort of meeting, and the sort of pain it was creating.
austen|We now come to the point.
dickens|Then, in a distant Missionary way he asked them certain questions,as why little Joe had that hole in his frill, who said, Pa, Flopson was going to mend it when she had time,and how little Fanny came by that whitlow, who said, Pa, Millers was going to poultice it when she didnt forget.
austen|I believe I did not play with the children quite so much as usual.
dickens|Every day, through the stony streets, the tumbrils now jolted heavily, filled with Condemned.
dickens|They writes fifty hands; theyre not like sneaking you, as writes but one.
austen|Only think of its being three months, she cried, since I went away; it seems but a fortnight I declare; and yet there have been things enough happened in the time.
austen|And how could it possibly come into your head?
austen|We passed each other several times.
dickens|Thus advised, Mrs Pocket took it the other way, and got its head upon the table; which was announced to all present by a prodigious concussion.
austen|Bless me!
austen|Her mind was in a state of flutter and wonder, which made it impossible for her to be collected.
dickens|My son, sir, said the old man, after securing the drawbridge, rather had it in his mind that you might happen to drop in, and he left word that he would soon be home from his afternoons walk.
austen|Emma assured her there would be no difficulty in the answer, and advised its being written directly, which was agreed to, in the hope of her assistance; and though Emma continued to protest against any assistance being wanted, it was in fact given in the formation of every sentence.
austen|If I come, I shall be cross.
austen|Is that his design in settling here?
dickens|He little suspected with whose money.
dickens|Not yet trusting the tones of her voice, she sat down on the bench beside him.
austen|to be sure, cried Emma, it is always incomprehensible to a man that a woman should ever refuse an offer of marriage.
dickens|said I, as if I found myself compelled to give up Biddy in despair.
austen|We have judged it best that my niece should be married from this house, of which I hope you will approve.
austen|She desired nothing better herself.
dickens|Alexandre Manette, physician.
dickens|Yes, Mr Jaggers.
dickens|If you could endure to have such a worthless fellow, and a fellow of such indifferent reputation, coming and going at odd times, I should ask that I might be permitted to come and go as a privileged person here; that I might be regarded as an useless and I would add, if it were not for the resemblance I detected between you and me, an unornamental piece of furniture, tolerated for its old service, and taken no notice of.
dickens|And I am really very much obliged to you for allowing me to sound you, and for giving me your advice; you know the young lady better than I do; you were right, it never would have done.
dickens|Yaha!
dickens|Cly who I will unreservedly admit, at this distance of time, was a partner of mine has been dead several years.
austen|Ah!
dickens|Deep, said Wemmick, as Australia.
austen|Why did not you all learn?
dickens|Would us, Pip?
dickens|Sauces, wines, all the accessories we wanted, and all of the best, were given out by our host from his dumbwaiter; and when they had made the circuit of the table, he always put them back again.
dickens|Now, look here!
austen|This information made Elizabeth smile, as she thought of poor Miss Bingley.
austen|No, no, said she, you are quite unreasonable.
austen|His goodnature, his humanity, as I tell you, would be quite enough to account for the horses.
dickens|They will recompense him now, I hope, as he deserves.
austen|But her present forebodings she feared would experience no similar contradiction.
dickens|She timidly laid her hand on his dear breast, and put up a prayer that she might ever be as true to him as her love aspired to be, and as his sorrows deserved.
austen|Ever hear her!
austen|This is feeling your way.
dickens|Keep me my usual chair.
dickens|no, nor yet his quartera banking away like smoke at Tellsons, and a cocking their medical eyes at that tradesman on the sly, a going in and going out to their own carriagesah!
austen|I really wish you to call with me.
dickens|His man drove as if he were charging an enemy, and the furious recklessness of the man brought no check into the face, or to the lips, of the master.
austen|Perhaps, said Darcy, I should have judged better, had I sought an introduction; but I am illqualified to recommend myself to strangers.
dickens|croaked Jacques Three.
dickens|Pip, sir.
austen|Miss Woodhouse looks as if she did not want me.
austen|He has not such a fine air and way of walking as Mr Knightley.
dickens|She did not appear when we afterwards went up to Miss Havishams room, and we four played at whist.
austen|Could he have seen the heart, he would have cared very little for the lungs; but without the most distant imagination of the impending evil, without the slightest perception of any thing extraordinary in the looks or ways of either, he repeated to them very comfortably all the articles of news he had received from Mr Perry, and talked on with much selfcontentment, totally unsuspicious of what they could have told him in return.
austen|Mrs Bennet treasured up the hint, and trusted that she might soon have two daughters married; and the man whom she could not bear to speak of the day before was now high in her good graces.
dickens|When I awoke, I was much surprised to find Joe sitting beside me, smoking his pipe.
dickens|Never.
dickens|So he got into difficulties in every direction, and continued to look about him.
dickens|Hah!
austen|The clerks grow expert from habit.
austen|Could a linguist, could a grammarian, could even a mathematician have seen what she did, have witnessed their appearance together, and heard their history of it, without feeling that circumstances had been at work to make them peculiarly interesting to each other?
austen|Harriet may not consider every body tiresome that you would.
austen|Elizabeth tried hard to dissuade him from such a scheme, assuring him that Mr Darcy would consider his addressing him without introduction as an impertinent freedom, rather than a compliment to his aunt; that it was not in the least necessary there should be any notice on either side; and that if it were, it must belong to Mr Darcy, the superior in consequence, to begin the acquaintance.
dickens|Asks another question of the subordinate before his first is dry!
dickens|You will be visited, and can ask then.
austen|Dining once with the Colesand having a ball talked of, which never took place.
austen|He could not understand it; but there were symptoms of intelligence between themhe thought so at leastsymptoms of admiration on his side, which, having once observed, he could not persuade himself to think entirely void of meaning, however he might wish to escape any of Emmas errors of imagination.
dickens|Not at all, but I hope to know it better.
dickens|Mr Stryver shouldered his way through the law, like some great engine forcing itself through turbid water, and dragged his useful friend in his wake, like a boat towed astern.
dickens|Nor, how I debated whether I should go away without ringing; nor, how I should undoubtedly have gone, if my time had been my own, to come back.
dickens|Tell me what Provis said, my dear Herbert.
dickens|That there Roger Cly, master, said Mr Cruncher, with a taciturn and ironbound visage.
austen|They must not oversalt the leg; and then, if it is not oversalted, and if it is very thoroughly boiled, just as Serle boils ours, and eaten very moderately of, with a boiled turnip, and a little carrot or parsnip, I do not consider it unwholesome.
dickens|The Educational scheme or Course established by Mr Wopsles greataunt may be resolved into the following synopsis.
dickens|But, there were other echoes, from a distance, that rumbled menacingly in the corner all through this space of time.
dickens|That is, he says she did.
dickens|What am I fit for?
dickens|My dear Manette, if he were overworked now  My dear Lorry, I doubt if that could easily be.
austen|Mrs Weston was convinced that such conversation must be the greatest relief to her companion, pent up within her own mind as every thing had so long been, and was very much pleased with all that she had said on the subject.
austen|It was adventuring too far, assuming too much, making light of what ought to be serious, a trick of what ought to be simple.
austen|If I draw less, I shall read more; if I give up music, I shall take to carpetwork.
austen|What right had he to come among us with affection and faith engaged, and with manners so very disengaged?
dickens|Dear Doctor Manette, I love your daughter fondly, dearly, disinterestedly, devotedly.
dickens|The preceding relative positions of himself and Lucie were reversed, yet only as the liveliest gratitude and affection could reverse them, for he could have had no pride but in rendering some service to her who had rendered so much to him.
austen|My interference was quite as likely to do harm as good.
dickens|It struck him motionless.
dickens|said I, for he was tending in that direction.
dickens|I was low; thats what I was; low.
austen|Mr Gardiner left Longbourn on Sunday; on Tuesday his wife received a letter from him; it told them that, on his arrival, he had immediately found out his brother, and persuaded him to come to Gracechurch Street; that Mr Bennet had been to Epsom and Clapham, before his arrival, but without gaining any satisfactory information; and that he was now determined to inquire at all the principal hotels in town, as Mr Bennet thought it possible they might have gone to one of them, on their first coming to London, before they procured lodgings.
dickens|And now are you all bobbish, and hows Sixpennorth of halfpence?
dickens|But ever afterwards, I remembered,and soon afterwards with stronger reason,that while Estella looked at me merely with incredulous wonder, the spectral figure of Miss Havisham, her hand still covering her heart, seemed all resolved into a ghastly stare of pity and remorse.
austen|I care for nobody as I do for you!
dickens|He then knocked at the doors of two other similar rooms, and introduced me to their occupants, by name Drummle and Startop.
dickens|Have you paid Wemmick?
dickens|Joes station and influence were something feebler if possible when there was company than when there was none.
dickens|Carton was the first to speak  The last chance is gone it was not much.
austen|It was a concern which brought just employment enough.
dickens|Whos he?
dickens|Would anyone believe that when Toms wife died, he actually could not be induced to see the importance of the childrens having the deepest of trimmings to their mourning?
austen|cried Emma, this has been a most unfortunatemost deplorable mistake!
austen|Tell your aunt, little Emma, that she ought to set you a better example than to be renewing old grievances, and that if she were not wrong before, she is now.
dickens|And to her, with a shrill thirsty cry, trooping women variously armed, but all armed alike in hunger and revenge.
dickens|As I thought that I might compromise him if I went too often to the Castle, I made this communication by letter.
dickens|You ridiculous boy, said Estella, will you never take warning?
austen|but what shall you do?
dickens|Truly it is against rule.
austen|Mr Frank Churchill still declined it, looking as serious as he could, and his father gave his hearty support by calling out, My good friend, this is quite unnecessary; Frank knows a puddle of water when he sees it, and as to Mrs Batess, he may get there from the Crown in a hop, step, and jump.
austen|Indeed!
dickens|And look at me!
dickens|and shook hands.
austen|Mr Weston entered into the idea with thorough enjoyment, and Mrs Weston most willingly undertook to play as long as they could wish to dance; and the interesting employment had followed, of reckoning up exactly who there would be, and portioning out the indispensable division of space to every couple.
dickens|Thinking that he did this to give me an opportunity of taking his Walworth sentiments, I seized the opportunity as soon as we were out of the Castle.
austen|Jane, I take your place now, and you must go lower, because I am a married woman.
austen|Not a word passed between the sisters concerning Bingley; but Elizabeth went to bed in the happy belief that all must speedily be concluded, unless Mr Darcy returned within the stated time.
austen|She would be never led into temptation, nor left for it to find her out.
dickens|And wreaths of dust were spinning round and round before the morning blast, as if the desertsand had risen far away, and the first spray of it in its advance had begun to overwhelm the city.
dickens|Do you?
austen|She had even learnt to detect, in the very gentleness which had first delighted her, an affectation and a sameness to disgust and weary.
dickens|And that aid was his own.
austen|She then took another line of expediency, and looking into the doubtful room, observed,  I do not think it is so very small.
austen|Mr Darcy asked him why he had not married your sister at once.
dickens|Then she said, Why not tell you the truth?
dickens|That, these lists could not be proved to be in the prisoners handwriting; but that it was all the same; that, indeed, it was rather the better for the prosecution, as showing the prisoner to be artful in his precautions.
dickens|In a hole in the chimney, where a stone has been worked out and replaced, I find a written paper.
dickens|Oh!
austen|There were Mr and Mrs Weston; delighted to see her and receive her approbation, very busy and very happy in their different way; she, in some little distress; and he, finding every thing perfect.
dickens|After taking a timid peep at him lying on his back, with his rusty hands under his head for a pillow, his son lay down too, and fell asleep again.
austen|She exerted herself, and did try to make her comfortable, by considering all that had passed as a mere trifle, and quite unworthy of being dwelt on,  It might be distressing, for the moment, said she; but you seem to have behaved extremely well; and it is overand may nevercan never, as a first meeting, occur again, and therefore you need not think about it.
dickens|Is that his child?
dickens|As if I had besought them as a favor to bother my life out.
dickens|Yes, dear boy?
austen|His coming to visit his father had been often talked of but never achieved.
austen|My dearest Harriet!
dickens|Yes, Mr Pip.
dickens|He was a secretlooking man whom I had never seen before.
dickens|I heerd him!
dickens|with the impatient movement of her fingers.
austen|and the face not unlike.
dickens|I know you are true.
dickens|I tell you what, young fellow, said she, I didnt bring you up by hand to badger peoples lives out.
austen|Come, Darcy, said he, I must have you dance.
dickens|Loud acclamations hailed this rebuke.
dickens|Respectin a future spear o life, miss, returned Mr Cruncher, I hope so.
dickens|You are notthe apprehension came suddenly into his minda prisoner?
dickens|But does he say so?
dickens|Evremonde, of France.
dickens|Yes, but we dont know what reason there is in it.
austen|Your first position is false.
dickens|You must leave your father and me alone for two minutes, and as there are Life and Death in the world you must not delay.
dickens|And it was from the gifts bestowed upon him towards the execution of this benevolent purpose, that he recruited his finances, as just now observed.
dickens|The young lady goes before all.
dickens|said the mender of roads.
dickens|That old man says, all this was actually done to a prisoner who made an attempt on the life of the late King, Louis Fifteen.
austen|  Emma Woodhouse, handsome, clever, and rich, with a comfortable home and happy disposition, seemed to unite some of the best blessings of existence; and had lived nearly twentyone years in the world with very little to distress or vex her.
austen|I certainly have not the talent which some people possess, said Darcy, of conversing easily with those I have never seen before.
dickens|he asked.
dickens|But, judging from the wing, it looked to me that when he see the ghost in the queens apartment, he might have made more of his stockings.
austen|Well, said she, it must be borne some time or other, and it may as well be now.
austen|I cannot agree with you, papa; you know I cannot.
dickens|Show me the way he went.
dickens|Let him say he was, in so much as a word of one syllable, and Ill either catch hold of his throat and choke him for half a guinea; Mr Cruncher dwelt upon this as quite a liberal offer; or Ill out and announce him.
austen|He then said,  I have received a letter this morning that has astonished me exceedingly.
dickens|Have you paid Wemmick?
dickens|The waiter seemed convinced that I could not deny it, and that it gave the case a black look.
dickens|She drew her arm through mine, as if it must be done, and I requested a waiter who had been staring at the coach like a man who had never seen such a thing in his life, to show us a private sittingroom.
dickens|But after dinner, when I made him take his pipe, and when I had loitered with him about the forge, and when we sat down together on the great block of stone outside it, we got on better.
austen|Mrs Weston, who seemed to have walked there on purpose to be tired, and sit all the time with him, remained, when all the others were invited or persuaded out, his patient listener and sympathiser.
dickens|said Stryver the portly, with his hands in his waistband, glancing round from the sofa where he lay on his back.
austen|Why, indeed; he does seem to have had some filial scruples on that head, as you will hear.
austen|Jane caught a bad cold, poor thing!
austen|After a few minutes of entire silence between them, John Knightley began with  I never in my life saw a man more intent on being agreeable than Mr Elton.
austen|The answer was only in this short note  Miss Fairfaxs compliments and thanks, but is quite unequal to any exercise.
dickens|He tilted me again.
austen|Do you think so?
dickens|If my advice had been asked, I should not have been here.
austen|His aunt could not bear to have him leave her.
dickens|Let it stand for this day week, and you shall receive my printed address in the meantime.
dickens|At first, I kept above Blackfriars Bridge; but as the hours of the tide changed, I took towards London Bridge.
dickens|Did the man run away, Dolt, when we stopped for the drag?
dickens|It was past in a moment, and I listened again, and heard the footstep stumble in coming on.
austen|said he, turning his eyes towards Jane.
dickens|Kicked on that occasion for cheating at dice?
austen|certainly, cried his faithful assistant, no one can be really esteemed accomplished who does not greatly surpass what is usually met with.
dickens|It happened that the other five children were left behind at the dinnertable, through Flopsons having some private engagement, and their not being anybody elses business.
austen|The only way of proving it, however, will be to turn to our maps.
dickens|He had em stowed away somehows.
austen|She brought no name, no blood, no alliance.
austen|Mr John Knightley here asked Emma quietly whether there were any doubts of the air of Randalls.
austen|And now I can tolerably comprehend his behaviour.
dickens|Ay, ay, dear boy!
dickens|At last, one day, I took courage, and said, Is it Joe?
austen|In seeing Bingley, her thoughts naturally flew to her sister; and, oh!
austen|You appear to me, Mr Darcy, to allow nothing for the influence of friendship and affection.
austen|And I think she feels it.
austen|These were her reasonsshe had no better.
austen|And when one considers the variety of hands, and of bad hands too, that are to be deciphered, it increases the wonder.
dickens|Summun had run away from mea mana tinkerand hed took the fire with him, and left me wery cold.
dickens|Which that same identical,  said Joe, going down a new track, do comb my air the wrong way sometimes, awful, by giving out up and down town as it were him which ever had your infant companionation and were looked upon as a playfellow by yourself.
austen|Mr Wickhams happiness and her own were perforce delayed a little longer, and Mr Collinss proposal accepted with as good a grace as she could.
austen|It was with him, of so simple, yet so dignified a nature.
austen|He scarcely needed an invitation to stay supper; and before he went away, an engagement was formed, chiefly through his own and Mrs Bennets means, for his coming next morning to shoot with her husband.
austen|But you may come again in the cool of tomorrow morning.
austen|It is very pretty, said Mr Woodhouse.
dickens|Meanwhile, Mr Waldengarver, in a frightful perspiration, was trying to get himself out of his princely sables.
austen|You have said quite enough, madam.
austen|Four weeks were to pass away before her uncle and aunts arrival.
dickens|This reminded me of the wonderful difference between the servile manner in which he had offered his hand in my new prosperity, saying, May I?
dickens|I mind nothing while I hold your hand.
austen|Pleased with the preference of one, and offended by the neglect of the other, on the very beginning of our acquaintance, I have courted prepossession and ignorance, and driven reason away, where either were concerned.
austen|   It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
austen|I can now say with the housekeeper, that though some people may call him proud, I have seen nothing of it.
dickens|The impossibility of keeping him concealed in the chambers was selfevident.
austen|Oh!
dickens|My dear friend, Doctor Manette!
austen|I am sure William Larkins will not like it.
austen|Frank Churchills confession of having behaved shamefully was the first thing to call for more than a word in passing.
dickens|He then explained this affectionate apostrophe, by touching his brooch representing the lady and the weeping willow at the tomb with the urn upon it, and saying, Had it made for me, express!
austen|I shall wear a large bonnet, and bring one of my little baskets hanging on my arm.
austen|While he was so dull, it was no wonder that Harriet should be dull likewise; and they were both insufferable.
austen|And you may be certain when I have the honour of seeing her again, I shall speak in the very highest terms of your modesty, economy, and other amiable qualification.
dickens|This was all I heard that night before my sister clutched me, as a slumberous offence to the companys eyesight, and assisted me up to bed with such a strong hand that I seemed to have fifty boots on, and to be dangling them all against the edges of the stairs.
dickens|What does he send me?
dickens|Had he reason?
dickens|I naturally said I had no wish to make it more.
austen|Can I do any thing for you at Kingston?
austen|Yet he knew to the contrary himself.
austen|He had never had the slightest suspicion.
austen|This wretched note was the finale of Emmas breakfast.
austen|She might never have thought of him but for me; and certainly never would have thought of him with hope, if I had not assured her of his attachment, for she is as modest and humble as I used to think him.
austen|Another slice of cold meat, another draught of Madeira and water, will make you nearly on a par with the rest of us.
austen|I have a very strong notion that it comes from him.
dickens|Doctor Manette was next questioned.
dickens|It occurred to me as inconsistent, that, for any mastering idea, he should have endangered his freedom, and even his life.
austen|You think her diffident.
austen|The good lady had not given me the possibility of escape before.
austen|Knightley!
dickens|As we walked to and fro, all four together, before breakfast, I deemed it right to recount what I had seen.
austen|But no letter appeared, and she was completely puzzled.
austen|And their mother had the satisfaction of knowing that she would be able to show her married daughter in the neighbourhood before she was banished to the North.
austen|She hears us, she hears us, Miss Woodhouse.
dickens|You?
dickens|Hes a liar born, and hell die a liar.
austen|He always moved with the alertness of a mind which could neither be undecided nor dilatory, but now he seemed more sudden than usual in his disappearance.
austen|Jane, Jane, my dear Jane, where are you?
dickens|Then she turned out the contents of the bowl of money for the second time, and began knotting them up in her handkerchief, in a chain of separate knots, for safe keeping through the night.
austen|But my feelings are not only cordial towards him; they are even impartial towards Miss King.
dickens|Scattered wits take a long time picking up; and often before I had got them well together, they would be dispersed in all directions by one stray thought, that perhaps after all Miss Havisham was going to make my fortune when my time was out.
austen|It appears to me a most perfect resemblance in every feature.
austen|His complexion became pale with anger, and the disturbance of his mind was visible in every feature.
austen|And then whisperingOur companions are excessively stupid.
dickens|The officer wrote until he had finished, read over to himself what he had written, sanded it, and handed it to Defarge, with the words In secret.
austen|Remember how few minutes I was at Randalls, and in how bewildered, how mad a state and I am not much better yet; still insane either from happiness or misery.
dickens|And I entreat you to say a word for me to Mr Jaggers, and to represent to him that, all circumstances considered, he ought to be more open with me!
austen|One more;they would not fatigue Miss Fairfax on any account, and would only ask for one more.
austen|But Mr Woodhousehow was Mr Woodhouse to be induced to consent?
dickens|I had not known how to do it well, not understanding how the wind would set when we were out of the harbour.
dickens|And after I had sent them in, I could not keep away from the places where they were, but felt as if they were more hopeful and less desperate when I was near them.
dickens|Ay, he comes back, said the landlord, to his great friends, now and again, and gives the cold shoulder to the man that made him.
austen|Who is to fight Wickham, and make him marry her, if he comes away?
austen|When had he left them?
dickens|Mr Stryver remarked upon the peculiarity as if it would have been infinitely less remarkable if he had said it with his head off.
dickens|Mrs Pockets dignity was so crushing, that I felt quite abashed, as if I myself had done something to rouse it.
dickens|And you?
dickens|Its aits a bad side of human nature.
austen|Pray forgive me if I have been very presuming, or at least do not punish me so far as to exclude me from P.
austen|What shall we do to rouse them?
austen|On finding Mrs Bennet, Elizabeth, and one of the younger girls together, soon after breakfast, he addressed the mother in these words  May I hope, madam, for your interest with your fair daughter Elizabeth, when I solicit for the honour of a private audience with her in the course of this morning?
austen|That, you know, was so very....
austen|A cousin of Mr Suckling, Mrs Bragge, had such an infinity of applications; every body was anxious to be in her family, for she moves in the first circle.
dickens|Thank you, thank you very much.
austen|Miss Nash has put down all the texts he has ever preached from since he came to Highbury.
austen|It is something to think of, and it gives her a sort of distinction among her companions.
dickens|He laid his hand on my shoulder.
austen|But, Lizzy, you look as if you did not enjoy it.
austen|Mr Weston had walked in.
dickens|Unseen by the spy, Mr Cruncher stood at his side, and touched him on the shoulder like a ghostly bailiff.
austen|how could it be?
austen|Mr Weston might be his sons superior.
dickens|My name, he said, is Jaggers, and I am a lawyer in London.
dickens|What did he live upon?
dickens|We talk of you in the kitchen every night, and wonder what you are saying and doing.
dickens|They have had their shameful rights, these Nobles, in the modesty and virtue of our sisters, many years, but we have had good girls among us.
dickens|And then I looked at the stars, and considered how awful it would be for a man to turn his face up to them as he froze to death, and see no help or pity in all the glittering multitude.
austen|What does this mean?
dickens|said Mr Stryver.
austen|It would be an interesting, and certainly a very kind undertaking; highly becoming her own situation in life, her leisure, and powers.
austen|Quite out of my power.
dickens|The sheep stopped in their eating and looked timidly at us; and the cattle, their heads turned from the wind and sleet, stared angrily as if they held us responsible for both annoyances; but, except these things, and the shudder of the dying day in every blade of grass, there was no break in the bleak stillness of the marshes.
austen|He loves any thing of the sort, and especially any thing that pays woman a compliment.
dickens|Notwithstanding my inability to settle to anything,which I hope arose out of the restless and incomplete tenure on which I held my means,I had a taste for reading, and read regularly so many hours a day.
dickens|As the son grew a young man, he turned out riotous, extravagant, undutiful,altogether bad.
dickens|Expected home.
austen|All expectation from the brother was now absolutely over.
dickens|Happy to say, I never knew him.
austen|My father and mother knew nothing of that; they only felt how imprudent a match it must be.
dickens|I suppose so.
austen|The hill, crowned with wood, which they had descended, receiving increased abruptness from the distance, was a beautiful object.
austen|My father would say yes, Mr Knightley no; and Miss Bates and I that he is just the happy medium.
austen|That is easybut Miss Fairfax does not disapprove it, I suppose.
austen|And here is Mrs Weston and Mr Frank Churchill too!
dickens|Look at me!
austen|A very few days brought the party from London, and she had no sooner an opportunity of being one hour alone with Harriet, than she became perfectly satisfiedunaccountable as it was!
austen|The surprise of the rest of the family, on hearing who their visitor had been, was very great; but they obligingly satisfied it, with the same kind of supposition which had appeased Mrs Bennets curiosity; and Elizabeth was spared from much teasing on the subject.
austen|I deserve to be under a continual blush all the rest of my life.
dickens|It would be ungenerous to affect not to know that your selfdenial is to be referred to your consideration for her father.
austen|said Miss Bates, joyfully; my mother is so pleased!
dickens|There is a great crowd coming one day into our lives, if that be so,  Sydney Carton struck in, in his moody way.
austen|My being saved from pain is a very secondary consideration.
austen|It saves trouble, and is a something to get me out.
austen|How shall we punish him for such a speech?
austen|He dined with us the next day, and was to leave town again on Wednesday or Thursday.
austen|There was nothing of presumption or folly in Bingley that could provoke his ridicule, or disgust him into silence; and he was more communicative, and less eccentric, than the other had ever seen him.
austen|And that, said Mrs Reynolds, pointing to another of the miniatures, is my masterand very like him.
dickens|It was not because I was faithful, but because Joe was faithful, that I never ran away and went for a soldier or a sailor.
austen|Yours, etc.
austen|I have been always telling you, my love, that I had no idea of the change being so very material to Hartfield as you apprehended; and now you have Emmas account, I hope you will be satisfied.
austen|And what can he mean by apologising for being next in the entail?
austen|After a pause of some minutes, she addressed him a second time withIt is your turn to say something now, Mr Darcy.
austen|and it was but yesterday I was telling Mr Cole, I really was ashamed to look at our new grand pianoforte in the drawingroom, while I do not know one note from another, and our little girls, who are but just beginning, perhaps may never make any thing of it; and there is poor Jane Fairfax, who is mistress of music, has not any thing of the nature of an instrument, not even the pitifullest old spinet in the world, to amuse herself with.
dickens|And only he?
dickens|Broken!
austen|Mr Elton was appealed to.
dickens|Thankye, thankye!
dickens|cried Uncle Pumblechook.
dickens|I say, Pip, old chap!
austen|It was also a very early speculation with Emma.
austen|You will not like the noise.
dickens|My heart was beating so fast, and there was such a singing in my ears, that I could scarcely stammer I had no objection.
dickens|No doubt I should have been miserable whomsoever she had favored; but a worthier object would have caused me a different kind and degree of distress.
dickens|Heres Miss Skiffins!
dickens|I should have done so, without the preparation, as he had shaken hands with no one yet.
austen|What a view this gives of her sense of his behaviour!
dickens|Is that it?
dickens|Many a time of an evening, when I sat alone looking at the fire, I thought, after all there was no fire like the forge fire and the kitchen fire at home.
austen|Worse than I had supposed.
dickens|Do you find her much changed, Pip?
austen|said he, smiling.
dickens|I doubt if I should abuse the permission.
dickens|The wretched wife of the innocent man thus doomed to die, fell under the sentence, as if she had been mortally stricken.
austen|One morning, soon after their arrival, as she was sitting with her two elder sisters, she said to Elizabeth  Lizzy, I never gave you an account of my wedding, I believe.
dickens|Dont.
dickens|I have been accustomed to see him at uncertain intervals, ever since I can remember.
austen|yes.
dickens|and then put the handkerchief to its right use with wonderful effect.
austen|She counted the days that must intervene before their invitation could be sent; hopeless of seeing him before.
austen|In time, of course, Mr Knightley would be forgotten, that is, supplanted; but this could not be expected to happen very early.
dickens|Not that it did the least good in the way of preventionit might almost have been worth remarking that the fact was exactly the reversebut, it cleared off as to this world the trouble of each particular case, and left nothing else connected with it to be looked after.
austen|Miss Nash had told her all this, and had talked a great deal more about Mr Elton; and said, looking so very significantly at her, that she did not pretend to understand what his business might be, but she only knew that any woman whom Mr Elton could prefer, she should think the luckiest woman in the world; for, beyond a doubt, Mr Elton had not his equal for beauty or agreeableness.
dickens|I could have posted a newspaper in his mouth, he made it so wide after saying this.
austen|I was introducing her into good company, and giving her the opportunity of pleasing some one worth having; I ought not to have attempted more.
dickens|It is enough that you return straight to the Conciergerie, and will know tomorrow.
dickens|Let me examine it.
dickens|I had no apprehension whatever of my real danger; but I was conscious that there might be danger for others, if others were compromised by possessing the knowledge that I possessed.
dickens|Ah!
dickens|Otherwise, she might think his life was wantonly thrown away or wasted, and that might trouble her.
austen|Colonel Campbell rather preferred an olive.
austen|Blame you!
dickens|Also Georgiana.
austen|A long time, is not it, for a cold to hang upon her?
dickens|How does it feel?
dickens|Citizen, I desire nothing more than to get to Paris, though I could dispense with the escort.
austen|It was just what it ought to be, and it looked what it wasand Emma felt an increasing respect for it, as the residence of a family of such true gentility, untainted in blood and understanding.
austen|He was most highly esteemed by Mr Darcy, a most intimate, confidential friend.
dickens|Some minutes of silent work had passed and the haggard eyes had looked up again not with any interest or curiosity, but with a dull mechanical perception, beforehand, that the spot where the only visitor they were aware of had stood, was not yet empty.
austen|Oh!
dickens|And yet I have had the weakness, and have still the weakness, to wish you to know with what a sudden mastery you kindled me, heap of ashes that I am, into firea fire, however, inseparable in its nature from myself, quickening nothing, lighting nothing, doing no service, idly burning away.
dickens|To see her with her white hair and her worn face kneeling at my feet gave me a shock through all my frame.
dickens|At the mention of each name, she had struck the table with her stick in a new place.
dickens|There are pen and ink and paper on this table.
dickens|Second, I am beholden to you as the cause of their being so busy and so mean in vain, and there is my hand upon it.
dickens|What is this?
dickens|It may prevent some persons laying under suspicion alonger me.
austen|and his wifes persuading him to it, out of care for his healthjust what will happen, I have no doubt, some time or other; only a little premature.
austen|Mr Knightley does nothing mysteriously.
dickens|Did they alight on the road in the course of the night?
dickens|cried Defarge, reddening a little as if he felt charged with cowardice; I too, my dear, will stop at nothing.
austen|As he spoke there was a sort of smile which Elizabeth fancied she understood; he must be supposing her to be thinking of Jane and Netherfield, and she blushed as she answered  I do not mean to say that a woman may not be settled too near her family.
dickens|The supplication touched him home.
dickens|Some registers were lying open on a desk, and an officer of a coarse, dark aspect, presided over these.
austen|If you will thank me, he replied, let it be for yourself alone.
austen|I dare say Miss Nash would envy you such an opportunity as this of being married.
dickens|The sound of our pens going refreshed us exceedingly, insomuch that I sometimes found it difficult to distinguish between this edifying business proceeding and actually paying the money.
austen|Sorrow camea gentle sorrowbut not at all in the shape of any disagreeable consciousness.
dickens|Put the case that he lived in an atmosphere of evil, and that all he saw of children was their being generated in great numbers for certain destruction.
dickens|You are very welcome, I am sure, Mr Pip; his hands were now out of his sleeves, and I was shaking them; and let me finally impress one important point upon you.
austen|This will be complete enjoyment; and I do not know, Mrs Elton, whether the uncertainty of our meetings, the sort of constant expectation there will be of his coming in today or tomorrow, and at any hour, may not be more friendly to happiness than having him actually in the house.
austen|and so she asked the two Harringtons to come, but Harriet was ill, and so Pen was forced to come by herself; and then, what do you think we did?
dickens|The coachman answered, A shillingunless you wish to make it more.
austen|She heard Miss Batess voice, something was to be done in a hurry; the maid looked frightened and awkward; hoped she would be pleased to wait a moment, and then ushered her in too soon.
austen|Yet, how just a humiliation!
dickens|It appeared, under the circumstances, rather agreeable to him to see the common people dispersed before his horses, and often barely escaping from being run down.
austen|should suppose himself her equal in connexion or mind!
austen|It was owing to him, to his reserve and want of proper consideration, that Wickhams character had been so misunderstood, and consequently that he had been received and noticed as he was.
austen|And had you really some at hand yourself?
dickens|I began to say that I hoped I was not interrupting, when the clerk shoved this gentleman out with as little ceremony as I ever saw used, and tossing his fur cap out after him, left me alone.
dickens|I earnestly expressed my hope that he wouldnt, and held tighter to the tombstone on which he had put me; partly, to keep myself upon it; partly, to keep myself from crying.
dickens|He told me that he was travelling on business of a delicate and difficult nature, which might get people into trouble, and that he was therefore travelling under an assumed name.
austen|I am a great dreamer.
dickens|Well, old chap, said Joe, then abide by your words.
dickens|Now, said he, when we had surveyed one another for some time, Ive got you.
austen|He might not be aware of the inroads on domestic peace to be occasioned by no housekeepers room, or a bad butlers pantry, but no doubt he did perfectly feel that Enscombe could not make him happy, and that whenever he were attached, he would willingly give up much of wealth to be allowed an early establishment.
austen|Will you?
dickens|I would not say happily, my friend, returned the uncle, with refined politeness; I would not be sure of that.
dickens|And when the relapse fell on him, was he in most respectsor in all respectsas he was then?
dickens|It was Mr Jaggerss hand, and he passed it through my arm.
dickens|Three turnkeys who entered responsive to a bell she rang, echoed the sentiment, and one added, For the love of Liberty; which sounded in that place like an inappropriate conclusion.
dickens|Gentlemen!
dickens|Think?
dickens|I have been informed by a person named Abel Magwitch, that he is the benefactor so long unknown to me.
austen|If what I have hitherto said can appear to you in the form of encouragement, I know not how to express my refusal in such a way as to convince you of its being one.
austen|This is wholly unexpected.
dickens|In the meantime, his son, whose head was garnished with tenderer spikes, and whose young eyes stood close by one another, as his fathers did, kept the required watch upon his mother.
austen|and very much to the purpose.
austen|She was therefore obliged to seek another branch of the subject, and related, with much bitterness of spirit and some exaggeration, the shocking rudeness of Mr Darcy.
dickens|You aint looked slowly forward to this as I have; you wosnt prepared for this as I wos.
dickens|And we were very cautious indeed,more cautious than before, if that were possible,and I for my part never went near Chinkss Basin, except when I rowed by, and then I only looked at Mill Pond Bank as I looked at anything else.
austen|We both know that he has been profligate in every sense of the word; that he has neither integrity nor honour; that he is as false and deceitful as he is insinuating.
dickens|Less coarse and common?
austen|And how could it be supposed that his uncle and aunt would spare him again?
dickens|To stand in the dark in a mysterious passage of an unknown house, bawling Estella to a scornful young lady neither visible nor responsive, and feeling it a dreadful liberty so to roar out her name, was almost as bad as playing to order.
austen|how acutely did she now feel it!
dickens|Indeed, it demanded from him a constant attention, and a quickness of eye and hand, very like that exacted by wicketkeeping.
dickens|Joseph!
dickens|I have verified my information, and theres an end.
dickens|I leaned over Joe, and, with the aid of my forefinger read him the whole letter.
dickens|For, says Herbert to me, coming home to dinner on one of those special occasions, I find the truth to be, Handel, that an opening wont come to one, but one must go to it,so I have been.
dickens|I didnt take particular notice, he said, dubiously, not knowing the ways of the place.
austen|HumphHarriets ready wit!
austen|Isabella then went to Emma; but Emma could not so entirely give up the hope of their being all able to get away; and they were still discussing the point, when Mr Knightley, who had left the room immediately after his brothers first report of the snow, came back again, and told them that he had been out of doors to examine, and could answer for there not being the smallest difficulty in their getting home, whenever they liked it, either now or an hour hence.
austen|Do not let mine continue longer.
dickens|We are friends, said I, rising and bending over her, as she rose from the bench.
austen|It reminded her of their first forlorn teteatete, on the evening of Mrs Westons weddingday; but Mr Knightley had walked in then, soon after tea, and dissipated every melancholy fancy.
austen|In another moment a happier sight caught her;Mr Knightley leading Harriet to the set!
austen|As it was, I was only betrayed into paying a most unreasonable visit.
dickens|Why should you be?
austen|Human nature is so prone to fall into it!
dickens|You have been the embodiment of every graceful fancy that my mind has ever become acquainted with.
dickens|And the friend I purpose to myself to win, is Mr Barsad.
austen|I am glad he can afford it.
dickens|And went on sawing his wood.
austen|Let us be thankful that you are preserved from a state of such insensibility.
austen|Mr Knightley had a cheerful manner, which always did him good; and his many inquiries after poor Isabella and her children were answered most satisfactorily.
austen|Depend upon it, we shall soon hear that it is a present from Mr and Mrs Dixon.
austen|Well, well, I am ready;and turning again to Emma, but you must not be expecting such a very fine young man; you have only had my account you know; I dare say he is really nothing extraordinarythough his own sparkling eyes at the moment were speaking a very different conviction.
austen|And do you really love him quite well enough?
dickens|Stay!
dickens|Touch that string, and he instantly changes for the worse.
dickens|Finally he gave a faint single rap, and Peppersuch was the compromising name of the avenging boyannounced Mr Gargery!
dickens|My earnestness awoke a wonder in her that seemed as if it would have been touched with compassion, if she could have rendered me at all intelligible to her own mind.
dickens|The waiter coughed, as if he modestly invited me to get over that.
dickens|Mamma dear, lisped the little girl, baby ood have put hith eyeth out.
dickens|Not that we wanted to take them, you understand; we went out as lookers on; me, and Mr Wopsle, and Pip.
austen|One good thing was immediately brought to a certainty by this removal,the ball at the Crown.
austen|She absolutely refused to allow me, which I then thought most unreasonable.
austen|I will say that for you.
austen|She said he was very agreeable the day he dined there.
austen|Can there be any other opinion on the subject?
dickens|In time I were able to keep him, and I kep him till he went off in a purple leptic fit.
dickens|But I cannot tell you at this time, and I cannot tell you here.
austen|But still, you will be an old maid!
austen|He had time only to say,  No, not at Randalls; I have not been near Randalls, when the door was thrown open, and Miss Bates and Miss Fairfax walked into the room.
austen|A few awkward moments passed, and he sat down again; and in a more determined manner said,  It was something to feel that all the rest of my time might be given to Hartfield.
dickens|In effect, sir, pursued the nephew, I believe it to be at once your bad fortune, and my good fortune, that has kept me out of a prison in France here.
dickens|Joe fell into the deepest disgrace with both, for offering the bright suggestion that I might only be presented with one of the dogs who had fought for the vealcutlets.
austen|She will think Frank ought to ask her.
austen|Single, my dear, to be sure!
dickens|Theres bright eyes somewhereseh?
austen|Christmas weather, observed Mr Elton.
dickens|Carton rejoining, Nothing in life!
austen|Her own conduct, as well as her own heart, was before her in the same few minutes.
dickens|She herself knows nothing, but that she was left an orphan and I adopted her.
austen|said Charlotte, as soon as he was gone.
austen|The gentlemen did approach, and when Mr Wickham walked into the room, Elizabeth felt that she had neither been seeing him before, nor thinking of him since, with the smallest degree of unreasonable admiration.
austen|Lizzy, said her father, I have given him my consent.
austen|You will observe that I have not yet indulged myself in calling her by that name, even to you.
austen|He will be here this evening, I dare say, and then I will give it him back, and some nonsense or other will pass between us, and you shall not be committed.
dickens|I am going to tell you how.
dickens|THIS IS THE END OF THE SECOND STAGE OF PIPS EXPECTATIONS.
dickens|said Mr Crunches looking about, as if he rather expected to see the loaf disappear under the efficacy of his wifes petitions.
austen|She was sitting by Mr Knightley, and turned to him for help.
austen|He knows it to be so, by his promises and messages; but if he wished to do it, it might be done.
austen|She was quite one of her worthiesthe most amiable, affable, delightful womanjust as accomplished and condescending as Mrs Elton meant to be considered.
austen|Poor Mr Woodhouse trembled as he sat, and, as Emma had foreseen, would scarcely be satisfied without their promising never to go beyond the shrubbery again.
austen|He meant to resign his commission immediately; and as to his future situation, he could conjecture very little about it.
dickens|Nor, did Miss Havishams manner towards Estella in anywise change, except that I believed it to have something like fear infused among its former characteristics.
austen|She is a selfish, hypocritical woman, and I have no opinion of her.
austen|here was a sideglance of great meaning at Jane.
austen|You will not like staying late.
dickens|I wish you would enter on it now, as far as a few friendly words go, with me.
austen|Perfectly remember Mrs Perrys coming.
austen|I knew enough of your disposition to be certain that, had you been absolutely, irrevocably decided against me, you would have acknowledged it to Lady Catherine, frankly and openly.
dickens|If one forlorn wanderer then pacing the dark streets, could have heard her innocent disclosure, and could have seen the drops of pity kissed away by her husband from the soft blue eyes so loving of that husband, he might have cried to the nightand the words would not have parted from his lips for the first time  God bless her for her sweet compassion!
dickens|You know where to deliver it?
dickens|Yes.
dickens|The burning of the body previously reduced to pieces convenient for the purpose was commenced without delay in the kitchen fire; and the tools, shoes, and leather, were buried in the garden.
dickens|No sooner did he face her, than Miss Pross uttered a scream, and clapped her hands.
dickens|He showed no surprise at seeing another figure, but the unsteady fingers of one of his hands strayed to his lips as he looked at it his lips and his nails were of the same pale leadcolour, and then the hand dropped to his work, and he once more bent over the shoe.
austen|Her hair, so untidy, so blowsy!
austen|Lady Catherine listened to half a song, and then talked, as before, to her other nephew; till the latter walked away from her, and making with his usual deliberation towards the pianoforte stationed himself so as to command a full view of the fair performers countenance.
dickens|Sydney Carton, who, with Mr Lorry, had been lost in amazement at this turn of the business, here requested Mr Cruncher to moderate and explain himself.
dickens|For, says Old Orlick to himself, Somehow or another Ill have him!
dickens|Ill tell the prisoner so.
dickens|That, this patriot would be produced before them.
dickens|Imperceptibly I became conscious of a change in Biddy, however.
austen|His behaviour to herself could now have had no tolerable motive; he had either been deceived with regard to her fortune, or had been gratifying his vanity by encouraging the preference which she believed she had most incautiously shown.
dickens|answered Darnay.
austen|but her lips were closed.
dickens|What do you say now?
austen|And I do envy him, Emma.
austen|Mr Woodhouse was almost as glad to see him now, as he would have been sorry to see him before.
dickens|He is of a studious habit, and unusually energetic; he applies himself with great ardour to the acquisition of professional knowledge, to the conducting of experiments, to many things.
austen|A style of living almost equal to Maple Groveand as to the children, except the little Sucklings and little Bragges, there are not such elegant sweet children anywhere.
dickens|You dont blame me, I hope, Mr Pip?
dickens|Any person but this miserable fool, answer the Citizeness Defarge!
austen|He concluded with representing to her the strength of that attachment which, in spite of all his endeavours, he had found impossible to conquer; and with expressing his hope that it would now be rewarded by her acceptance of his hand.
dickens|Call me uncle.
austen|But what is distance, Mr Weston, to people of large fortune?
dickens|It was not until I became third in the Firm, that Clarriker betrayed me to Herbert; but he then declared that the secret of Herberts partnership had been long enough upon his conscience, and he must tell it.
austen|I never saw any thing so hard.
dickens|Let him have something to eat, and let him roam and look about him while he eats.
austen|Well, thensupposing them to be in London.
dickens|Does he resemble either of these two passengers?
dickens|Little Lucie sat by her grandfather with her hands clasped through his arm and he, in a tone not rising much above a whisper, began to tell her a story of a great and powerful Fairy who had opened a prisonwall and let out a captive who had once done the Fairy a service.
dickens|Really, Mr Barsad, I cant say, if you cant.
dickens|As to the men and women, their choice on earth was stated in the prospectLife on the lowest terms that could sustain it, down in the little village under the mill; or captivity and Death in the dominant prison on the crag.
austen|I will call another day, and hear the pianoforte.
dickens|Look here, Jacques!
austen|It is one thing, said she, presentlyher cheeks in a glowto have very good sense in a common way, like every body else, and if there is any thing to say, to sit down and write a letter, and say just what you must, in a short way; and another, to write verses and charades like this.
austen|They called for him in their way; were all extremely amused; and my brother asked him to dine with them the next daywhich he didand in the course of that visit as I understand he found an opportunity of speaking to Harriet; and certainly did not speak in vain.
dickens|Change places with him, and would you have been looked at by those blue eyes as he was, and commiserated by that agitated face as he was?
dickens|I hope so.
dickens|Why?
dickens|He had eyes that assorted very well with that decoration, being of a surface black, with no depth in the colour or form, and much too near togetheras if they were afraid of being found out in something, singly, if they kept too far apart.
dickens|Darkness closed around, and then came the ringing of church bells and the distant beating of the military drums in the Palace Courtyard, as the women sat knitting, knitting.
dickens|It is better as it is.
dickens|Pip is that hearty welcome, said Joe, to go free with his services, to honor and fortun, as no words can tell him.
austen|And then, he saved her life.
dickens|Nothing to boast of, said Miss Pross.
austen|How good it was in you, my dear Mr Bennet!
dickens|Is my benefactor to be made known to me today?
dickens|I think she is very insulting.
dickens|From the blacksmiths.
dickens|Never.
austen|What years of felicity that man, in all human calculation, has before him!
dickens|These she put on, out on the staircase, first shutting and locking the door and taking away the key.
austen|I do not know but that the place agrees with her tolerably.
austen|Well, Frank, your dream certainly shews that Highbury is in your thoughts when you are absent.
dickens|This in passing.
dickens|Stop!
austen|I can readily believe, answered he gravely, that reports may vary greatly with respect to me; and I could wish, Miss Bennet, that you were not to sketch my character at the present moment, as there is reason to fear that the performance would reflect no credit on either.
austen|You must contrive to send somebody.
dickens|Which the playacting have likeways brought him to London along with me.
dickens|Choice!
dickens|My love, the staircase is as still as Death.
dickens|Whos him?
dickens|YesI  After a pause, he added, again settling the crisp flaxen wig at the ears, It is very difficult to begin.
austen|If he would say so to her at once, in the tone of decision becoming a man, there would be no opposition made to his going.
dickens|Her shoes were white.
austen|All that were good would be withdrawn; and if to these losses, the loss of Donwell were to be added, what would remain of cheerful or of rational society within their reach?
dickens|When I looks for you, I finds your uncle Provis, eh?
austen|At last Emma attacked her on another ground.
dickens|Heres Mike, said the clerk, getting down from his stool, and approaching Mr Jaggers confidentially.
dickens|And then repeated, with her former pleasant change, shall we walk a little farther, or go home?
austen|To no creature had it been revealed, where secrecy was possible, except to Elizabeth; and from all Bingleys connections her brother was particularly anxious to conceal it, from the very wish which Elizabeth had long ago attributed to him, of their becoming hereafter her own.
austen|Often as she had wished for and ordered it, she had never been able to get any thing tolerable.
austen|I do not often walk this way now, said Emma, as they proceeded, but then there will be an inducement, and I shall gradually get intimately acquainted with all the hedges, gates, pools and pollards of this part of Highbury.
dickens|I am very glad to do so.
dickens|Who has seen her?
austen|very well, exclaimed Miss Bates, then I need not be uneasy.
dickens|Could you tell her so for me, with my fervent acknowledgments?
dickens|And do well, I am sure?
dickens|Good.
austen|Yes, Miss Bennet, interest; for do not expect to be noticed by his family or friends, if you wilfully act against the inclinations of all.
dickens|By and by, his door opened and he came out.
austen|In one respect he is the object of my envy.
dickens|French.
austen|said Mr Weston.
dickens|The lady with whom Estella was placed, Mrs Brandley by name, was a widow, with one daughter several years older than Estella.
austen|If any thing could be more, where all was most, she was more reserved on the subject of Weymouth and the Dixons than any thing.
dickens|Save him now, my Doctor, save him!
dickens|Instantly Madame Defarges knife was in her girdle; the drum was beating in the streets, as if it and a drummer had flown together by magic; and The Vengeance, uttering terrific shrieks, and flinging her arms about her head like all the forty Furies at once, was tearing from house to house, rousing the women.
austen|However, I assure you, Miss Woodhouse, I wish her no evil.
austen|One seems so forlorn without them.
austen|Considering the very particular friendship between her and Mrs Dixon, you could hardly have expected her to be excused from accompanying Colonel and Mrs Campbell.
dickens|Thats a coincidence, too, the guard mused, for I made the same of it myself.
dickens|Then the Judge addressed them.
austen|She still intended him for her friend.
dickens|There are no medicines to be obtained in this lonely place.
austen|She was quick in feeling the little injuries to Isabella, which Isabella never felt herself.
dickens|The time so melted away, that our early dinnerhour drew close at hand, and Estella left us to prepare herself.
dickens|He took out his purse.
dickens|The two spectators started forward, but she stayed them with a motion of her hand.
dickens|Receiving no answer, he tore his hair, and beat his feet upon the ground, like a distracted child.
austen|Shall I call upon them?
dickens|Yes, Miss Havisham.
austen|Elizabeth was now most heartily sorry that she had, from the distress of the moment, been led to make Mr Darcy acquainted with their fears for her sister; for since her marriage would so shortly give the proper termination to the elopement, they might hope to conceal its unfavourable beginning from all those who were not immediately on the spot.
dickens|Now, Pip, said he, be careful.
dickens|As I keep the cash, Mr Wemmick observed, we shall most likely meet pretty often.
dickens|Upon which he put down his head, blew a cloud of smoke out of his nose, and vanished with a kickup of his hindlegs and a flourish of his tail.
dickens|The stranger looked at me again,still cocking his eye, as if he were expressly taking aim at me with his invisible gun,and said, Hes a likely young parcel of bones that.
austen|I want you to save yourself from greater pain.
austen|I do not trust my own partiality.
dickens|Sometimes he was almost or quite unable to speak, then he would answer me with slight pressures on my hand, and I grew to understand his meaning very well.
austen|But you know married women have never much time for writing.
austen|She was now in perfect charity with Frank Churchill; she wanted no explanations, she wanted only to have her thoughts to herselfand as for understanding any thing he wrote, she was sure she was incapable of it.
dickens|It struck me as a singular implication that you couldnt be out of a countinghouse, you know, and look about you; but I silently deferred to his experience.
dickens|By my boy, I was giv to understand as Compeyson was out on them marshes too.
austen|I shall pull it to pieces as soon as I get home, and see if I can make it up any better.
dickens|Work, Jacques One, Jacques Two, Jacques One Thousand, Jacques Two Thousand, Jacques FiveandTwenty Thousand; in the name of all the Angels or the Devilswhich you preferwork!
austen|Miss Lucas called soon after breakfast, and in a private conference with Elizabeth related the event of the day before.
dickens|I am tired, said Miss Havisham.
austen|My conduct may, I fear, be objectionable in having accepted my dismission from your daughters lips instead of your own.
austen|Mrs Bennet and her daughters apologised most civilly for Lydias interruption, and promised that it should not occur again, if he would resume his book; but Mr Collins, after assuring them that he bore his young cousin no illwill, and should never resent her behaviour as any affront, seated himself at another table with Mr Bennet, and prepared for backgammon.
dickens|The watchful guard, with his right hand at the stock of his raised blunderbuss, his left at the barrel, and his eye on the horseman, answered curtly, Sir.
austen|He is, indeed.
austen|I remember, as soon as ever I saw him, when he first came into Hertfordshire last year, I thought how likely it was that you should come together.
austen|His fear of her has always operated, I know, when they were together; and a good deal is to be imputed to his wish of forwarding the match with Miss de Bourgh, which I am certain he has very much at heart.
dickens|said Mr Jaggers.
austen|The soup was fifty times better than what we had at the Lucases last week; and even Mr Darcy acknowledged, that the partridges were remarkably well done; and I suppose he has two or three French cooks at least.
dickens|You will find your credit good, Mr Pip, said my guardian, whose flask of sherry smelt like a whole caskful, as he hastily refreshed himself, but I shall by this means be able to check your bills, and to pull you up if I find you outrunning the constable.
austen|Yes, very well.
austen|What do you imagine his age to be?
dickens|under that sky there, every day.
austen|I am joined with him in the guardianship of Miss Darcy.
austen|Ever since I left you this morning, Emma, my mind has been hard at work on one subject.
austen|Yes, sir, I did indeed; and I am very much obliged by your kind solicitude about me.
dickens|Well, sir!
dickens|But we further agreed that he should pull down the blind in that part of his window which gave upon the east, whenever he saw us and all was right.
dickens|Whats the matter now?
dickens|I will, sir, I returned.
austen|What was to be done?
austen|He was accused of having a delightful voice, and a perfect knowledge of music; which was properly denied; and that he knew nothing of the matter, and had no voice at all, roundly asserted.
dickens|But, he had never seen his friend in his present aspect he had never at all known him in his present character.
austen|And as to conceit, he is the farthest from it of any man I know.
austen|A year and a half is the very utmost that they can have lived at West Hall; and how they got their fortune nobody knows.
dickens|Upon the top of the bank was a low brick wall, surmounted by an iron railing.
dickens|The first of them told him so, with the customary prison sign of Deatha raised fingerand they all added in words, Long live the Republic!
austen|MY DEAR MADAM,  If I made myself intelligible yesterday, this letter will be expected; but expected or not, I know it will be read with candour and indulgence.
dickens|I wish to see her.
austen|The invitation was refused, and by a verbal message.
dickens|Gentlemen, said Mr Jaggers, deliberately putting down the glass, and hauling out his gold repeater by its massive chain, I am exceedingly sorry to announce that its half past nine.
dickens|What possessed you?
dickens|You have nothing more to say to me tonight?
austen|You have given Miss Smith all that she required, said he; you have made her graceful and easy.
austen|You are not going to introduce yourself to Mr Darcy!
dickens|Every green leaf, every blade of grass and blade of grain, was as shrivelled and poor as the miserable people.
austen|cried Maria, after a few minutes silence, it seems but a day or two since we first came!
dickens|She curtseyed to him young ladies made curtseys in those days, with a pretty desire to convey to him that she felt how much older and wiser he was than she.
dickens|For the Temple, I think, said I.
austen|He really believed, that were it not for the inferiority of her connections, he should be in some danger.
dickens|said Mr Cruncher, who all this time had been putting on his clothes, if I aint, what with piety and one blowed thing and another, been choused this last week into as bad luck as ever a poor devil of a honest tradesman met with!
dickens|Good night, Englishman.
austen|The little Gardiners, attracted by the sight of a chaise, were standing on the steps of the house as they entered the paddock; and, when the carriage drove up to the door, the joyful surprise that lighted up their faces, and displayed itself over their whole bodies, in a variety of capers and frisks, was the first pleasing earnest of their welcome.
austen|Well, I am so sorry!
austen|That is the case with us all, papa.
dickens|You anticipate what I would say, though you cannot know how earnestly I say it, how earnestly I feel it, without knowing my secret heart, and the hopes and fears and anxieties with which it has long been laden.
dickens|The sound of her iron shoes upon the hard road was quite musical, as she came along at a much brisker trot than usual.
dickens|Yes, said he, nodding in the direction.
dickens|So, I nodded, and then he nodded again, and made room on the settle beside him that I might sit down there.
austen|Extremely disagreeable!
dickens|I examine it, very closely.
dickens|Thankee!
dickens|You remember the place, my father?
dickens|Youd have thought!
austen|The first remote sound to which she felt herself obliged to attend, was the name of Jane Fairfax.
dickens|I fear he is not to be reclaimed; there is scarcely a hope that anything in his character or fortunes is reparable now.
austen|We were too magnificent, said he.
austen|He told me it was to be a great secret; and, therefore, I should not think of mentioning it to any body but you, but he said you knew it.
austen|You can have no superior, but most true on mine.
austen|I am here on no business of my own, said Emma; I am only waiting for my friend.
austen|You were speaking, said he, gravely.
dickens|Really, then?
austen|My acquaintance is so very extensive, that I have little doubt of hearing of something to suit her shortly.
austen|Plain dealing was always best.
dickens|He left the messengers at the gate, and saw them admitted by the porter.
dickens|This has two advantages.
austen|But it is very likely that he may fall in love with one of them, and therefore you must visit him as soon as he comes.
austen|Consoled by this resolution, she was the better able to bear her husbands incivility; though it was very mortifying to know that her neighbours might all see Mr Bingley, in consequence of it, before they did.
dickens|Yes, Joe.
austen|The unhappiness produced by the knowledge of that engagement had been a little put aside by Elizabeth Martins calling at Mrs Goddards a few days afterwards.
dickens|But, the friendly dawn appearing at last, and the rushcandles of the village guttering out, the people happily dispersed, and Monsieur Gabelle came down bringing his life with him for that while.
austen|Here is your tippet.
dickens|I was not allowed to call him uncle, under the severest penalties.
austen|So then, I try to put it out of her thoughts, and say, Come maam, do not let us think about it any more.
austen|Whenever the time may come, it must be unwelcome to her and all her friendsbut I hope her engagement will have every alleviation that is possibleI mean, as to the character and manners of the family.
austen|But this does not acquit him, Mrs Weston; and I must say, that I think him greatly to blame.
dickens|Wemmick was silent for a little while, and then said with a kind of start, Well you know, Mr Pip, I must tell you one thing.
austen|I have been most highly gratified indeed, my dear sir.
austen|They shall talk.
dickens|The boat had returned, and his guard were ready, so we followed him to the landingplace made of rough stakes and stones, and saw him put into the boat, which was rowed by a crew of convicts like himself.
dickens|There is terror in the carriage, there is weeping, there is the heavy breathing of the insensible traveller.
austen|Miss Woodhouse, said Frank Churchill, after examining a table behind him, which he could reach as he sat, have your nephews taken away their alphabetstheir box of letters?
austen|Then pray speak aloud.
dickens|The keeper of the wineshop, always going a little in advance, and always going on the side which Mr Lorry took, as though he dreaded to be asked any question by the young lady, turned himself about here, and, carefully feeling in the pockets of the coat he carried over his shoulder, took out a key.
dickens|Well, said Joe, with the same appearance of profound cogitation, he is notno, not to deceive you, he is notmy nevvy.
dickens|I am glad to tell you so.
austen|I have never been attached to him.
austen|Let me return your congratulations.
dickens|Good.
austen|On that head, therefore, I shall be uniformly silent; and you may assure yourself that no ungenerous reproach shall ever pass my lips when we are married.
austen|There every little dissatisfaction that had occurred before came to a crisis.
austen|You mistake me, my dear.
austen|But, really, I know not what to say.
dickens|My dear friend, said Mr Pumblechook, taking me by both hands, when he and I and the collation were alone, I give you joy of your good fortune.
dickens|Goodbye!
dickens|The wound was a swordthrust, received from twenty to twentyfour hours before, but no skill could have saved him if it had been looked to without delay.
austen|His coming into the country at all is a most insolent thing, indeed, and I wonder how he could presume to do it.
dickens|I dont know this man!
austen|I am sure I do not know.
austen|They are not married, nor can I find there was any intention of being so; but if you are willing to perform the engagements which I have ventured to make on your side, I hope it will not be long before they are.
dickens|They were all by that time choking the Hall of Examination where this old man, ugly and wicked, was, and overflowing into the adjacent open space and streets.
dickens|In a little while he came.
dickens|At his particular request, I appointed to call for him at the Castle at half past eight on Monday morning, and so we parted for the time.
dickens|The hungry man repeated, in a rapturous croak, Magnificent!
dickens|He was on his way to dig some one out of a grave.
austen|My dear, you are too particular, said her husband.
dickens|I understand that I wait for you under all circumstances?
austen|She will grow just refined enough to be uncomfortable with those among whom birth and circumstances have placed her home.
austen|She could not be too soon alarmed, nor send for Perry too often.
dickens|The whole business was so cleverly managed, that Herbert had not the least suspicion of my hand being in it.
austen|Miss Nash thinks either of the Coxes would be very glad to marry him.
austen|But, my dear sister, can I be happy, even supposing the best, in accepting a man whose sisters and friends are all wishing him to marry elsewhere?
dickens|Once.
dickens|Used!
dickens|It used not to be so, but France in all such things is changed for the worse.
austen|The loss of the ballthe loss of the young manand all that the young man might be feeling!
austen|He has not been able to get the Romance of the Forest yet.
dickens|I meet no dinner anywhere.
austen|Her objections to Mr Knightleys marrying did not in the least subside.
dickens|Let me confess exactly with what feelings I looked forward to Joes coming.
dickens|Ill hear what you have got to say.
austen|In such an exigence, my uncles advice and assistance would be everything in the world; he will immediately comprehend what I must feel, and I rely upon his goodness.
austen|But now it comes out  My motive for cautioning you is as follows.
dickens|He didnt precisely remember where it was.
austen|And do you impute it to either of those?
dickens|Your part of the country, I think?
austen|Many circumstances assisted the temptation.
austen|I am not likely to leave Kent for some time.
dickens|I have seen Mr Jaggers.
austen|My picture!
dickens|said I.
austen|It was badly done, indeed!
austen|I said to my mother, Upon my word, maam.
dickens|After it is oversay at eight tonightcome you to me, in Saint Antoine, and we will give information against these people at my Section.
dickens|Crash!
austen|Mrs Cole has servants to send.
austen|The conviction seemed real; he looked as if he felt it.
dickens|Adieu!
dickens|A despatch sent after you from over yonder.
dickens|She made it a powerful merit in herself, and a strong reproach against Joe, that she wore this apron so much.
dickens|Is that all?
austen|They should lose her; and, probably, in great measure, her husband also.
austen|The motive professed was his conviction of its being owing to himself that Wickhams worthlessness had not been so well known as to make it impossible for any young woman of character to love or confide in him.
dickens|O Father, blessed words!
austen|William did not seem to mind it himself, he was so pleased to think his master had sold so many; for William, you know, thinks more of his masters profit than any thing; but Mrs Hodges, he said, was quite displeased at their being all sent away.
austen|Had Lydia and her mother known the substance of her conference with her father, their indignation would hardly have found expression in their united volubility.
dickens|At this point Joe greatly augmented my curiosity by taking the utmost pains to open his mouth very wide, and to put it into the form of a word that looked to me like sulks.
austen|All the better.
dickens|In this unreasonable restlessness and pain of mind I would roam the streets of an evening, wandering by those offices and houses where I had left the petitions.
austen|Invite him to dinner, Emma, and help him to the best of the fish and the chicken, but leave him to chuse his own wife.
dickens|returned the man, with a relish; hell be drawn on a hurdle to be half hanged, and then hell be taken down and sliced before his own face, and then his inside will be taken out and burnt while he looks on, and then his head will be chopped off, and hell be cut into quarters.
dickens|I could hardly believe it myself, if you told me.
dickens|But what I look at is this.
dickens|Dont you see?
austen|said Elizabeth.
austen|Perhaps he must, if he sees enough of her.
dickens|I tell you once for all, there is no such thing as an escape possible,  said the spy, firmly.
dickens|Your suspense is nearly ended, my darling; he shall be restored to you within a few hours; I have encompassed him with every protection.
austen|He sat really lost in thought for the first few minutes; and when rousing himself, it was only to say,  Of all horrid things, leavetaking is the worst.
austen|Later in the morning, and just as the girls were going to separate in preparation for the regular four oclock dinner, the hero of this inimitable charade walked in again.
austen|They had not long been together before Mr Darcy told her that Bingley was also coming to wait on her; and she had barely time to express her satisfaction, and prepare for such a visitor, when Bingleys quick step was heard on the stairs, and in a moment he entered the room.
austen|And to be kept back on such a motive!
austen|I will bring friends with me.
austen|She is staying here on a visit to her grandmama and aunt, very worthy people; I have known them all my life.
austen|The evening altogether passed off pleasantly to the whole family.
dickens|The valet had put her away from the door, the carriage had broken into a brisk trot, the postilions had quickened the pace, she was left far behind, and Monseigneur, again escorted by the Furies, was rapidly diminishing the league or two of distance that remained between him and his chateau.
dickens|C.
dickens|What can I do for my friend?
dickens|The lonely church, right out on the marshes, with graves round it!
dickens|Joe pursued, somebody must keep the pot a biling, Pip, or the pot wont bile, dont you know?
dickens|The cathedral chimes had at once a sadder and a more remote sound to me, as I hurried on avoiding observation, than they had ever had before; so, the swell of the old organ was borne to my ears like funeral music; and the rooks, as they hovered about the gray tower and swung in the bare high trees of the priory garden, seemed to call to me that the place was changed, and that Estella was gone out of it for ever.
dickens|demanded Stryver, perceptibly crestfallen.
dickens|I certainly have seen that.
austen|by the bye, then sinking his voice, and looking demure for the momentI hope Mr Knightley is well?
dickens|Not one of them would harm you.
dickens|said the Spy nervously.
dickens|At length, as I was looking out at the iron gate of Bartholomew Close into Little Britain, I saw Mr Jaggers coming across the road towards me.
austen|A young farmer, whether on horseback or on foot, is the very last sort of person to raise my curiosity.
austen|But the fact is, that being, as I am, to inherit this estate after the death of your honoured father who, however, may live many years longer, I could not satisfy myself without resolving to choose a wife from among his daughters, that the loss to them might be as little as possible, when the melancholy event takes placewhich, however, as I have already said, may not be for several years.
dickens|Up one minute and down the next; now in spirits and now in despondency!
dickens|But Joe was readier with his definition than I had expected, and completely stopped me by arguing circularly, and answering with a fixed look, Her.
austen|And in the first place, let us hear what has happened to you all since you went away.
austen|I fancy, Lizzy, that obstinacy is the real defect of his character, after all.
dickens|The coffeeroom had no other occupant, that forenoon, than the gentleman in brown.
austen|No husbands and wives, with so interesting a consciousness, that Emma began to consider whether she had not better leave them together at once.
dickens|When I became Joes prentice, Orlick was perhaps confirmed in some suspicion that I should displace him; howbeit, he liked me still less.
dickens|Only one, and he a miserable creature, of a crazed aspect, is so shattered and made drunk by horror, that he sings, and tries to dance.
dickens|As was natural, the headquarters and great gatheringplace of Monseigneur, in London, was Tellsons Bank.
dickens|she cries, in her shrill tones.
dickens|According to my experience, the conventional notion of a lover cannot be always true.
austen|Most earnestly did she then entreat him to lose no more time before he wrote.
dickens|Do you feel, yet, that you belong to this terrestrial scheme again, Mr Darnay?
dickens|V.
austen|Here have I, said she, actually talked poor Harriet into being very much attached to this man.
dickens|Who gave you leave to prowl about?
austen|You may imagine what I felt and how I acted.
dickens|But for the indelible picture that my remembrance now holds before me, I could scarcely believe, even as I write these words, that I saw twoandthirty men and women put before the Judge to receive that sentence together.
austen|But do you always write such charming long letters to her, Mr Darcy?
austen|No more exploring parties to Donwell made for her.
dickens|She lost her colour, and the old and intent expression was a constant, not an occasional, thing; otherwise, she remained very pretty and comely.
austen|In general, it was a very well approved match.
austen|Is there nothing you could take to give you present relief?
austen|Dirty, sir!
austen|I certainly get better and better.
dickens|I have now concluded, sir, said Joe, rising from his chair, and, Pip, I wish you ever well and ever prospering to a greater and a greater height.
austen|If there were anyone that one could apply to with a probability of gaining such a clue as that, it might be of essential consequence.
austen|But do not be cast down.
dickens|Monseigneur could swallow a great many things with ease, and was by some few sullen minds supposed to be rather rapidly swallowing France; but, his mornings chocolate could not so much as get into the throat of Monseigneur, without the aid of four strong men besides the Cook.
dickens|I was alone, and had a dull sense of being alone.
dickens|But when Herbert and I had held our momentous conversation, I was seized with a feverish conviction that I ought to hunt the matter down,that I ought not to let it rest, but that I ought to see Mr Jaggers, and come at the bare truth.
austen|Jane, cried Elizabeth, was there a servant belonging to it who did not know the whole story before the end of the day?
dickens|I faltered, I dont know.
dickens|He put a foot up to the bars, to dry and warm it, and the wet boot began to steam; but, he neither looked at it, nor at the fire, but steadily looked at me.
austen|But you are too good for that, I am sure.
dickens|On these few steps of his dangerous way, Charles Darnay had set his foot according to Doctor Manettes reiterated instructions.
dickens|Very good.
dickens|Speak, wolf!
dickens|We have seen enough of it, to know that it teems with interest; little more.
dickens|There has never been the least departure from the strict line of fact.
dickens|Mr Lorry came silently forward, leaving the daughter by the door.
dickens|Say five miles.
austen|Emma was rather in dismay when only half a minute afterwards he began to speak of other things, and in a voice of the greatest alacrity and enjoyment.
austen|We must not make him desperate.
austen|She had resolved to defer the disclosure till Mrs Weston were safe and well.
austen|Remember.
dickens|As to the convicts, they went their way with the coach, and I knew at what point they would be spirited off to the river.
dickens|What of that?
dickens|Shes lifting me up.
austen|It needed all Janes steady mildness to bear these attacks with tolerable tranquillity.
austen|Oh!
dickens|Miss Havisham quite shrieked, as she stretched out her arms.
austen|Harriet, who was standing at some distance, and with face turned from her, did not immediately say any thing; and when she did speak, it was in a voice nearly as agitated as Emmas.
austen|In short, I can feel no dependence on his coming, and I wish Mr Weston were less sanguine.
austen|There he had not always the patience that could have been wished.
dickens|Old Foulon taken, my mother!
austen|But I only mean to say that there are advertising offices, and that by applying to them I should have no doubt of very soon meeting with something that would do.
dickens|And Wemmick repeated, No admissions.
austen|Witness this very time.
dickens|Then why didnt you say so at first?
dickens|DEAREST,Take courage.
dickens|Now, he pursued, concerning Miss Havisham.
dickens|What, in the name of the Father of Lies, own father to yourself, was you called at that time?
dickens|Mr Jaggers had seen me with Estella, and was not likely to have missed the sentiments I had been at no pains to conceal.
austen|It does not follow that a deep, intricate character is more or less estimable than such a one as yours.
austen|She was at least free from the offense of Mr Darcys further notice; though often standing within a very short distance of her, quite disengaged, he never came near enough to speak.
austen|True affection only could have prompted it.
austen|Elizabeth could not but smile at such a conclusion of such a beginning, but Mrs Bennet, who had persuaded herself that her husband regarded the affair as she wished, was excessively disappointed.
austen|Mr Collins and Charlotte appeared at the door, and the carriage stopped at the small gate which led by a short gravel walk to the house, amidst the nods and smiles of the whole party.
austen|His friends are eager to promote his happiness.
austen|Only that morning.
austen|In that respect Mrs Westons loss had been important.
austen|The blunders, the blindness of her own head and heart!
dickens|I only want your authority.
dickens|The murdered person was a woman,a woman a good ten years older, very much larger, and very much stronger.
austen|As soon as she came to her own name, it was irresistible; every line relating to herself was interesting, and almost every line agreeable; and when this charm ceased, the subject could still maintain itself, by the natural return of her former regard for the writer, and the very strong attraction which any picture of love must have for her at that moment.
austen|I confess, said he, that I should not have been at all surprised by her ladyships asking us on Sunday to drink tea and spend the evening at Rosings.
austen|I doubt whether my own sense would have corrected me without it.
austen|He saw the advantages of the match, and rejoiced in them with all the constancy of his wife; but the wonder of it was very soon nothing; and by the end of an hour he was not far from believing that he had always foreseen it.
austen|Under that peculiar sort of dry, blunt manner, I know you have the warmest heart.
austen|Papa, if you speak in that melancholy way, you will be giving Isabella a false idea of us all.
austen|If you were to give me forty such men, I never could be so happy as you.
dickens|I tell you it was your doing,I tell you it was done through you, he retorted, catching up the gun, and making a blow with the stock at the vacant air between us.
dickens|But, all this was at first.
dickens|They had not enjoyed themselves a quarter so much, before the entertainment was brightened with the excitement he furnished.
austen|It was not to be supposed that any other people could be meant than those with whom she was connected.
dickens|At the moment of my arrival, he had just finished putting somebodys hat into black longclothes, like an African baby; so he held out his hand for mine.
dickens|This spot and these beautiful works upon it ought to be kept together by the Nation, after my sons time, for the peoples enjoyment.
austen|Such sweet lines!
austen|He is rich, to be sure, and you may have more fine clothes and fine carriages than Jane.
austen|I will see that there are umbrellas, sir, said Frank to his father Miss Bates must not be forgotten and away he went.
austen|She was happy, she knew she was happy, and knew she ought to be happy.
austen|She is a flatterer in all her ways; and so much the worse, because undesigned.
dickens|But I could not submit to be thrown off in that way, and I made a passionate, almost an indignant appeal, to him to be more frank and manly with me.
austen|A circumstance rather unlucky occurred.
austen|In short, my dear Emma, there is no occasion to be so uneasy about it.
austen|I am sure they will like her extremely; and when she gets a little acquainted with them, her fears will completely wear off, for there really is nothing in the manners of either but what is highly conciliating.
austen|It is very hard to think that she might have been Mr Collinss wife by this time, had it not been for her own perverseness.
austen|But you are always giving her the preference.
austen|What do you advise?
austen|If I did not know her to be happy now, said Emma, seriously, which, in spite of every little drawback from her scrupulous conscience, she must be, I could not bear these thanks;for, oh!
austen|She is his principal correspondent, I assure you.
austen|I want to know, said she, with a countenance no less smiling than her sisters, what you have learnt about Mr Wickham.
dickens|The latent uneasiness in Darnays mind was roused to vigourous life by this letter.
dickens|Ask him, is that so.
dickens|I thought, feeling my heart shoot as I identified him.
dickens|As he looked at Carton with clouded eyes and with an altered manner of breathing, Cartonhis hand again in his breastlooked steadily at him.
dickens|Mr Pumblechook, with a fat sort of laugh, said, Ay, ay?
dickens|But the man continuing to exclaim, Down, Evremonde!
dickens|Judiciously show a dog his natural prey, if you wish him to bring it down one day.
dickens|She werent long of following, poor soul, and her share of peace come round at last.
dickens|I also saw that I was an incumbrance in the mind of the elder, too.
austen|An union of a different tendency, and precluding the possibility of the other, was soon to be formed in their family.
dickens|Looking in at the door, after knocking in vain, I saw her sitting on the hearth in a ragged chair, close before, and lost in the contemplation of, the ashy fire.
dickens|Through the fire and through the smokein the fire and in the smoke, for the sea cast him up against a cannon, and on the instant he became a cannonierDefarge of the wineshop worked like a manful soldier, Two fierce hours.
austen|You will soon be cooler, if you sit still, said Emma.
austen|Excepting inequality of fortune, and perhaps a little disparity of age, I can see nothing unsuitable.
austen|she cried; I, who have prided myself on my discernment!
dickens|Her halfbrother had now ample means again, but what with debts and what with new madness wasted them most fearfully again.
dickens|But the shadow of the manner of these Defarges was dark upon himself, for all that, and in his secret mind it troubled him greatly.
austen|I have not a fault to find with her person, he replied.
dickens|And must obey, said I.
dickens|You say they are marks of fingernails, and you set up the hypothesis that she destroyed her child.
austen|She danced next with an officer, and had the refreshment of talking of Wickham, and of hearing that he was universally liked.
dickens|No; deuce a bit of a lady in the case, Mr Pip, except one,and she wasnt of this slender ladylike sort, and you wouldnt have caught her looking after this urn, unless there was something to drink in it.
dickens|Now, would it not be better that he should let it go?
austen|For her own advantage indeed, it was fit that the utmost extent of Harriets hopes should be enquired into; and Harriet had done nothing to forfeit the regard and interest which had been so voluntarily formed and maintainedor to deserve to be slighted by the person, whose counsels had never led her right.
dickens|Here is my hand.
dickens|I had cherished a profound conviction that her bringing me up by hand gave her no right to bring me up by jerks.
austen|But if I go on, I shall displease you by saying what I think of persons you esteem.
dickens|Good day, citizen.
dickens|That I got them off, closed with her, threw her down, and got them over her; that I dragged the great cloth from the table for the same purpose, and with it dragged down the heap of rottenness in the midst, and all the ugly things that sheltered there; that we were on the ground struggling like desperate enemies, and that the closer I covered her, the more wildly she shrieked and tried to free herself,that this occurred I knew through the result, but not through anything I felt, or thought, or knew I did.
dickens|A tremendous roar arose from the throat of Saint Antoine, and a forest of naked arms struggled in the air like shrivelled branches of trees in a winter wind all the fingers convulsively clutching at every weapon or semblance of a weapon that was thrown up from the depths below, no matter how far off.
austen|You are rather disposed to call his interference officious?
austen|But about the middle of the day she gets hungry, and there is nothing she likes so well as these baked apples, and they are extremely wholesome, for I took the opportunity the other day of asking Mr Perry; I happened to meet him in the street.
dickens|O, Lord!
austen|Perhaps preparing for his marriage with Miss de Bourgh, said Elizabeth.
dickens|Quite.
dickens|said the spy.
austen|What sister would think herself at liberty to do it, unless there were something very objectionable?
dickens|So he sat, with a steadfastly vacant gaze, pausing in his work.
austen|My kind friends will not hear of my returning till I am better.
dickens|This was my homely thought, as I contemplated the boxtree.
austen|She could think of nothing more to say; but if he wished to converse with her, he might have better success.
dickens|Miss Havisham will soon be expecting you at your old post, though I think that might be laid aside now, with other old belongings.
dickens|Ever busily winding the golden thread which bound her husband, and her father, and herself, and her old directress and companion, in a life of quiet bliss, Lucie sat in the still house in the tranquilly resounding corner, listening to the echoing footsteps of years.
austen|admits our apology, and is not offended.
austen|With their wealth, their views increased; their want of a larger house, their inclination for more company.
dickens|I leaving my work on the road, the sun going to bed, the carriage of the Marquis slowly ascending the hill, he hanging by the chainlike this.
dickens|He dipped his hand in the water over the boats gunwale, and said, smiling with that softened air upon him which was not new to me  Ay, I spose I think so, dear boy.
austen|As a daughter, she hoped she was not without a heart.
austen|Such formidable accounts of her ladyship, and her manner of living, quite frightened Maria Lucas who had been little used to company, and she looked forward to her introduction at Rosings with as much apprehension as her father had done to his presentation at St.
austen|They were soon gone again, rising from their seats with an activity which took their brother by surprise, and hurrying off as if eager to escape from Mrs Bennets civilities.
dickens|This lady, whose name was Camilla, very much reminded me of my sister, with the difference that she was older, and as I found when I caught sight of her of a blunter cast of features.
dickens|There was a song Joe used to hum fragments of at the forge, of which the burden was Old Clem.
dickens|It was clear last night that this barbed the point of Proviss animosity.
dickens|This lasted twentysix hours from the time when I first saw her.
austen|I dare say he will come in when he knows who is here.
dickens|The man never trod ground whose virtues and services would have sustained him in that place that day, against such denunciation.
austen|Even your satisfaction I made sure of.
austen|And Frank Churchill was heard to say, I think you could manage this without effort; the first part is so very trifling.
dickens|So!
dickens|asked the lively boy.
austen|It is so wonderful, that though perfectly convinced of the fact, it is yet almost incredible to myself.
austen|Oh!
dickens|As to the first figure now.
austen|La!
dickens|As he did so, a small case in which the Doctor was accustomed to carry the lists of his days duties, fell lightly on the floor.
dickens|Now, I have asked you a question, my friend, said Mr Jaggers.
dickens|The administration of mutton instead of medicine, the substitution of Tea for Joe, and the baker for bacon, were among the mildest of my own mistakes.
dickens|I am not paid, Pip, said he, coolly, to carry your words to any one; and then gathered up his coattails, as he had gathered up the subject, and stood frowning at his boots as if he suspected them of designs against him.
austen|What totally different feelings did Emma take back into the house from what she had brought out!
austen|It might be safely viewed with all its appendages of prosperity and beauty, its rich pastures, spreading flocks, orchard in blossom, and light column of smoke ascending.
dickens|Two can go up town.
dickens|Runaways!
dickens|said I.
dickens|My opinion of those accessories was not favorable.
dickens|We walked to town, my sister leading the way in a very large beaver bonnet, and carrying a basket like the Great Seal of England in plaited Straw, a pair of pattens, a spare shawl, and an umbrella, though it was a fine bright day.
austen|That is all settled.
dickens|No, you maynt.
austen|Heaven and earth!
dickens|So it does me.
austen|And having gone through what immediately followed of the basis of their disagreement, and his persisting to act in direct opposition to Jane Fairfaxs sense of right, he made a fuller pause to say, This is very bad.
austen|I am,she answeredI am fatigued; but it is not the sort of fatiguequick walking will refresh me.
dickens|For anything I knew, his animosity towards the man might otherwise lead to his seeking him out and rushing on his own destruction.
dickens|returned the young lady, who was very pretty and seemed very proud; come in, Pip.
dickens|He made all manner of gestures while he spoke, as if in incidental imitation of some few of the great diversity of signals that he had never seen.
dickens|I am sure that the best part of it might still be; I am sure that you might be much, much worthier of yourself.
dickens|By this time, the rooms were vastly different from what I had found them, and I enjoyed the honor of occupying a few prominent pages in the books of a neighboring upholsterer.
austen|A lady always does.
dickens|Has she been gone long, Joe?
dickens|Thats a pity!
austen|Not these two or three years, perhaps.
austen|It is wonderful how many families I have been the means of supplying in that way.
dickens|But, although you are the youngest man that ever lived, said Charles Darnay, rather hesitating, I must still suggest to you  I understand.
dickens|Nothing was represented in a flourishing condition, save tools and weapons; but, the cutlers knives and axes were sharp and bright, the smiths hammers were heavy, and the gunmakers stock was murderous.
dickens|Having released his noble bosom of its burden, he would have modestly withdrawn himself, but that the wigged gentleman with the papers before him, sitting not far from Mr Lorry, begged to ask him a few questions.
austen|Tis twelve; I shall not forget to think of you four hours hence; and by this time tomorrow, perhaps, or a little later, I may be thinking of the possibility of their all calling here.
austen|Oh!
austen|It was not in compliment to Jane Fairfax however that he was so indifferent, or so indignant; he was not guided by her feelings in reprobating the ball, for she enjoyed the thought of it to an extraordinary degree.
austen|said he, as he joined her.
dickens|Lose no time!
dickens|To hear the names hes giving me!
austen|Oh!
dickens|Do you see those grovelling and wandering eyes?
dickens|That.
austen|for I ought not to have mentioned the subject.
dickens|I asked, after a silence.
dickens|As I looked along the clustered roofs, with churchtowers and spires shooting into the unusually clear air, the sun rose up, and a veil seemed to be drawn from the river, and millions of sparkles burst out upon its waters.
dickens|At the instant when Darnay saw a rush in the eyes of the crowd, which another instant would have brought upon him, the postmaster turned his horse into the yard, the escort rode in close upon his horses flanks, and the postmaster shut and barred the crazy double gates.
dickens|I knew it would be so; I knew I could help Charles out of all danger; I told Lucie so.
dickens|A gentleman and lady.
austen|Quite delightful to have you all meet so!
austen|But if, which I rather imagine, your making the match, as you call it, means only your planning it, your saying to yourself one idle day, I think it would be a very good thing for Miss Taylor if Mr Weston were to marry her, and saying it again to yourself every now and then afterwards, why do you talk of success?
dickens|Was that criminal in the eyes of the Republic?
austen|But when Elizabeth told of his silence, it did not seem very likely, even to Charlottes wishes, to be the case; and after various conjectures, they could at last only suppose his visit to proceed from the difficulty of finding anything to do, which was the more probable from the time of year.
austen|Is he married or single?
austen|She looked at his two sisters, and saw them making signs of derision at each other, and at Darcy, who continued, however, imperturbably grave.
dickens|I really go tonight, for the case has become too pressing to admit of delay.
austen|And, in return for your acknowledging so much, I will do you the justice to say, that you would have chosen for him better than he has chosen for himself.
austen|Me!
austen|I thought it my duty to give the speediest intelligence of this to my cousin, that she and her noble admirer may be aware of what they are about, and not run hastily into a marriage which has not been properly sanctioned.
dickens|My tea, my dear!
austen|Now, as her objection was nothing but her very great dislike of Mrs Elton, of which Mr Weston must already be perfectly aware, it was not worth bringing forward againit could not be done without a reproof to him, which would be giving pain to his wife; and she found herself therefore obliged to consent to an arrangement which she would have done a great deal to avoid; an arrangement which would probably expose her even to the degradation of being said to be of Mrs Eltons party!
austen|Frank Churchill would return among them no more; and Miss Fairfax, it was reasonable to suppose, would soon cease to belong to Highbury.
dickens|I wish you well and happy!
austen|There was another reason too for her opposition.
austen|I should be sorry to think so ill of him, in the very beginning of our relationship.
dickens|I asked him presently whether he had been spending his halfholiday up and down town?
austen|But she is so fond of the nephew he is so very great a favourite.
austen|I do own myself to have been completely mistaken in Mr Elton.
dickens|Thank ye, my dear.
austen|Extraordinary dream, indeed!
dickens|Go on!
dickens|Our conference was held in the state parlor, which was feebly lighted by one candle.
dickens|You may also tell him, from me, that after abandoning his worldly goods and position to this butcherly mob, I wonder he is not at the head of them.
dickens|The guard soon replaced his blunderbuss in his armchest, and, having looked to the rest of its contents, and having looked to the supplementary pistols that he wore in his belt, looked to a smaller chest beneath his seat, in which there were a few smiths tools, a couple of torches, and a tinderbox.
dickens|She sighed No.
austen|They have known her much longer than they have known me; no wonder if they love her better.
dickens|In a back room, a highshouldered man with a faceache tied up in dirty flannel, who was dressed in old black clothes that bore the appearance of having been waxed, was stooping over his work of making fair copies of the notes of the other two gentlemen, for Mr Jaggerss own use.
austen|She saw it all with a clearness which had never blessed her before.
dickens|said Darnay, when they had listened for a while.
dickens|You are well acquainted with it now?
dickens|Sometimes, he gets up in the dead of the night, and will be heard, by us overhead there, walking up and down, walking up and down, in his room.
dickens|They can never help me to escape in the body, though they may in the spirit.
dickens|You are going out tonight?
austen|We must endeavour to forget all that has passed on either side, said Jane I hope and trust they will yet be happy.
dickens|Every Christmas Day, he retorted, as he now retorted, Its no more than your merits.
dickens|Good day, citizeness.
austen|not I, indeedI never look at itI do not know who does.
dickens|In another place, lay an old sword that seemed to have been a soldiers.
austen|We must do whatever is to be done quickest, and I think our feelings will lose no time there.
dickens|It was wretched weather; stormy and wet, stormy and wet; and mud, mud, mud, deep in all the streets.
dickens|Now, perhaps youll mention whats the matter, said my sister, out of breath, you staring great stuck pig.
austen|You and Miss Smith, and Miss Fairfax, will be three, and the two Miss Coxes five, had been repeated many times over.
austen|He moved a few steps nearer, and those few steps were enough to prove in how gentlemanlike a manner, with what natural grace, he must have danced, would he but take the trouble.
dickens|The Judges having to take part in a public demonstration out of doors, the Tribunal adjourned.
dickens|Will you wake me?
dickens|We should then be well in those long reaches below Gravesend, between Kent and Essex, where the river is broad and solitary, where the waterside inhabitants are very few, and where lone publichouses are scattered here and there, of which we could choose one for a restingplace.
austen|She would be a loser in every way.
dickens|There was no one bidden to the marriage but Mr Lorry; there was even to be no bridesmaid but the gaunt Miss Pross.
austen|She has a very good notion of fingering, though her taste is not equal to Annes.
austen|and Mr George and Mr Arthur!
dickens|I drank to the new couple, drank to the Aged, drank to the Castle, saluted the bride at parting, and made myself as agreeable as I could.
austen|His character was decided.
dickens|I do not quite understand, returned the uncle, sipping his coffee.
dickens|Remember?
dickens|For the daughters?
dickens|Probably it is through Provis that you have received the explanation of Magwitchin New South Wales?
dickens|Enough.
austen|And as to smallersized rooms than I had been used to, I really could not give it a thought.
austen|I hope I should know better, he replied; no, depend upon it, with a gallant bow, that in addressing Mrs Weston I should understand whom I might praise without any danger of being thought extravagant in my terms.
dickens|But the black beetles took no notice of the agitation, and groped about the hearth in a ponderous elderly way, as if they were shortsighted and hard of hearing, and not on terms with one another.
dickens|Suddenly, he turned to the sergeant, and remarked,  I wish to say something respecting this escape.
austen|Society has claims on us all; and I profess myself one of those who consider intervals of recreation and amusement as desirable for everybody.
austen|Lady Catherine might see him in her way through town; and his engagement to Bingley of coming again to Netherfield must give way.
dickens|Wotever I done is worked out and paid for, he insisted again.
austen|He could not help seeing that you were about five times as pretty as every other woman in the room.
austen|She was evidently displeased; looked up, and seeing herself watched, blushed more deeply than he had ever perceived her, and saying only, I did not know that proper names were allowed, pushed away the letters with even an angry spirit, and looked resolved to be engaged by no other word that could be offered.
dickens|He is alive.
austen|But she had never felt so strongly as now the disadvantages which must attend the children of so unsuitable a marriage, nor ever been so fully aware of the evils arising from so illjudged a direction of talents; talents, which, rightly used, might at least have preserved the respectability of his daughters, even if incapable of enlarging the mind of his wife.
austen|Mr Elton then turned back to accompany them.
dickens|Youre as proud of it as Punch; aint you, Aged?
dickens|What the two drank together, between Hilary Term and Michaelmas, might have floated a kings ship.
dickens|The crippling stones of the pavement, with their many little reservoirs of mud and water, had no footways, but broke off abruptly at the doors.
austen|I wish I had attended to itbutwith a sinking voice and a heavy sigh I seem to have been doomed to blindness.
dickens|Tell me directly what youve been doing to wear me away with fret and fright and worrit, or Id have you out of that corner if you was fifty Pips, and he was five hundred Gargerys.
dickens|Well, supposing Mr Pip is one of them?
dickens|Camilla was Mr Pockets sister.
dickens|Wemmick was up early in the morning, and I am afraid I heard him cleaning my boots.
dickens|I gave Magwitch that caution, said Mr Jaggers, looking hard at me; I wrote it to New South Wales.
austen|I am delighted to find that you can vouchsafe to let your imagination wanderbut it will not dovery sorry to check you in your first essaybut indeed it will not do.
austen|The remaining five were left to their own powers, and Emma doubted their getting on very well; for Mr Knightley seemed little disposed for conversation; Mrs Elton was wanting notice, which nobody had inclination to pay, and she was herself in a worry of spirits which would have made her prefer being silent.
austen|I should never have considered the distance as one of the advantages of the match, cried Elizabeth.
dickens|She presently rose from her seat, and looked about the blighted room for the means of writing.
austen|If she is half as sharp as her mother, she is saving enough.
austen|If he were deficient there, nothing should make amends for it.
austen|your father of course may spare you, if your mother can.
dickens|It was a passionate, loving, thankful, womanly action, but the hand made no responsedropped cold and heavy, and took to its knitting again.
austen|South End is an unhealthy place.
dickens|To him, now entered Charles Darnay, at sight of whom he laid aside his book and held out his hand.
austen|Sure he will not leave London before he has found them.
dickens|Very much.
austen|NoI have never seen Mr Elton, she replied, starting on this appeal; is heis he a tall man?
dickens|I was better after I had cried than before,more sorry, more aware of my own ingratitude, more gentle.
dickens|Nobodys enemy but his own!
austen|Emma spoke for her.
dickens|He formed this speech with his lips many times before he could utter it.
dickens|It may have been a signal for loosening the general tongue.
dickens|Steady!
dickens|Wemmick!
dickens|It dont signify to you with your brilliant lookout, but as to myself, my guidingstar always is, Get hold of portable property.
austen|They had music; Emma was obliged to play; and the thanks and praise which necessarily followed appeared to her an affectation of candour, an air of greatness, meaning only to shew off in higher style her own very superior performance.
dickens|Dont you know?
austen|At last, with some hesitation, Harriet said  Miss Woodhouse, as you will not give me your opinion, I must do as well as I can by myself; and I have now quite determined, and really almost made up my mindto refuse Mr Martin.
austen|Knightley!
austen|It was very lucky, for I would not have had poor James think himself slighted upon any account; and I am sure she will make a very good servant she is a civil, prettyspoken girl; I have a great opinion of her.
dickens|A solemn consideration, when I enter a great city by night, that every one of those darkly clustered houses encloses its own secret; that every room in every one of them encloses its own secret; that every beating heart in the hundreds of thousands of breasts there, is, in some of its imaginings, a secret to the heart nearest it!
austen|But not a word more.
dickens|By the by; you were quite a pigeonfancier.
dickens|The trees and the night are all that are here.
dickens|As I giv you to understand just now, Im famous for it.
austen|The housekeeper came forward, and told them it was a picture of a young gentleman, the son of her late masters steward, who had been brought up by him at his own expense.
dickens|But we held our own without any appearance of molestation.
austen|susceptibility to her feelings; which are naturally lively enough.
dickens|Sarah Pocket conducted me down, as if I were a ghost who must be seen out.
austen|I could not have believed it!
dickens|The President rang his bell to silence those cries, and asked the prisoner whether it was not true that he had lived many years in England?
austen|cried Bingley.
austen|Oh!
dickens|He was to be told said Monseigneur that supper awaited him then and there, and that he was prayed to come to it.
dickens|You are not trying her for the murder of her child; why dont you?
dickens|Simply, that he has received the letter, and will come.
austen|I would not change you for the clearestheaded, longestsighted, bestjudging female breathing.
dickens|Yes.
austen|You forced me into visiting him last year, and promised, if I went to see him, he should marry one of my daughters.
dickens|Where married?
dickens|Dont be afraid to hear me.
dickens|Mrs Pocket finishing her orange at about the same time, and not approving of this, said to Jane,  You naughty child, how dare you?
dickens|After that, it became customary with us to have it as we moved about, and Estella would often join in; though the whole strain was so subdued, even when there were three of us, that it made less noise in the grim old house than the lightest breath of wind.
austen|and his answering immediately to the last question Oh!
austen|What a meeting for her, when she first sees my aunt!
dickens|You have been a long time coming, said the Marquis, with a smile.
dickens|He did everything for me except the household work, for which he had engaged a very decent woman, after paying off the laundress on his first arrival.
austen|The wedding was no distant event, as the parties had only themselves to please, and nothing but the necessary preparations to wait for; and when he set out for Bath again, there was a general expectation, which a certain glance of Mrs Coles did not seem to contradict, that when he next entered Highbury he would bring his bride.
austen|Eager to be alone, and fearful of inquiries or hints from her uncle and aunt, she stayed with them only long enough to hear their favourable opinion of Bingley, and then hurried away to dress.
austen|Talking about sprucebeer.
dickens|MONSIEUR HERETOFORE THE MARQUIS.
dickens|It is hard for me to speak of her at any time.
austen|Do you understand?
dickens|From the streets beyond the high wall and the strong gate, there came the usual night hum of the city, with now and then an indescribable ring in it, weird and unearthly, as if some unwonted sounds of a terrible nature were going up to Heaven.
austen|It had better have happened to you, Lizzy; you would have laughed yourself out of it sooner.
dickens|The little servant happening to be entering the fortress with two hot rolls, I passed through the postern and crossed the drawbridge in her company, and so came without announcement into the presence of Wemmick as he was making tea for himself and the Aged.
dickens|I replied at my own chambers, with Herbert.
dickens|If I could only get myself to do it, that would be the thing for me.
dickens|But when that little child is dropped into heavier for that grab of whisker or shaking, then that man naterally up and says to himself, Where is the good as you are a doing?
austen|I do not pretend to possess equal frankness with your ladyship.
austen|It is not likely.
dickens|Come close.
dickens|Reddening the snowy streets with the prevailing Republican colour, in winding and tramping through them, as they had reddened them below the snow with a deeper dye, they carried him thus into the courtyard of the building where he lived.
austen|You may possibly wonder why all this was not told you last night; but I was not then master enough of myself to know what could or ought to be revealed.
dickens|the latter whispered.
austen|I would have her understand me.
austen|Mr Frank Churchill hardly knows what to say when you speak of Miss Fairfaxs situation in life.
austen|This is quite shocking!
dickens|She laid her head upon her fathers breast, as she had laid his poor head on her own breast, long, long ago.
dickens|I am sure of it.
austen|Well, that is so very!
dickens|Dont you tell no more of em, Pip.
austen|Fortunately for him, Highbury, including Randalls in the same parish, and Donwell Abbey in the parish adjoining, the seat of Mr Knightley, comprehended many such.
dickens|Waiter!
dickens|The smooth manner of the spy, curiously in dissonance with his ostentatiously rough dress, and probably with his usual demeanour, received such a check from the inscrutability of Carton,who was a mystery to wiser and honester men than he,that it faltered here and failed him.
dickens|said I.
dickens|And wishing, pursued Joe, with another fixed look at me, like another effort of remembrance, that the state of Miss Havishams elth were sitch as would haveallowed, were it, Pip?
dickens|No boat would then be hired for the purpose, and no boatmen; that would save at least a chance of suspicion, and any chance is worth saving.
dickens|But it is the obstinate custom of such creatures hardly ever to say what is set down for them.
dickens|See Defarge!
austen|A very few minutes more, however, completed the present trial.
austen|I had no hesitation in advising him to marry.
dickens|Doctor Manette did not return until the morning of the fourth day of his absence.
dickens|Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, or Death!
austen|The day came, the party were punctually assembled, and Mr John Knightley seemed early to devote himself to the business of being agreeable.
dickens|After a very short delay, she returned and took me up, staring at me all the way.
dickens|You might have used your talents better.
austen|She was going to the butchers, she told me, on purpose to order in some meat on Wednesday, and she has got three couple of ducks just fit to be killed.
dickens|Here is Squires of the Boar present, known and respected in this town, and here is William, which his fathers name was Potkins if I do not deceive myself.
dickens|Would you do me the favour, miss, to take notice o two promises and wows wot it is my wishes fur to record in this here crisis?
austen|By a most fortunate chance his leaving Highbury had been delayed so as to bring him to her assistance at this critical moment.
austen|He had returned to a late dinner, and walked to Hartfield as soon as it was over.
dickens|I think that, henceforth, nothing but some extraordinary jarring of that chord could renew it.
austen|The extreme sweetness of her temper must hurt his.
austen|He seems to me to be grown particularly gentle of late.
austen|But, perhapsI may be equally in the way here.
austen|Will you chuse a wife for me?
dickens|But what is the matter!
dickens|So much was closing in about the women who sat knitting, knitting, that they their very selves were closing in around a structure yet unbuilt, where they were to sit knitting, knitting, counting dropping heads.
dickens|cried Miss Havisham, turning wildly to me.
austen|You cannot have been always at Longbourn.
austen|Mrs Churchill, after being disliked at least twentyfive years, was now spoken of with compassionate allowances.
dickens|Gentlemen, said Mr Wopsle, I am proud to see you.
austen|Darcy was fixed in astonishment.
austen|Highbury, with Mrs Weston, stood for Hartfield; and she trusted to its bearing the same construction with him.
austen|A note was written to urge it.
austen|That sweet, amiable Jane Fairfax!
austen|Emma wondered on what, of all the medley, she would fix.
austen|She hoped no one could have said to her, How could you be so unfeeling to your father?
austen|He writes like a sensible man, replied Emma, when she had read the letter.
dickens|A ghost could not have been taken and hanged on my account, and the consideration that he could be, and the dread that he would be, were no small addition to my horrors.
dickens|The look and the action had occupied but an instant.
dickens|The moment he succeeded, he came over to me breathing sherry and crumbs, and said in a subdued voice, May I, dear sir?
dickens|You should know, said Estella.
dickens|A tall man in a nightcap had caught up a bundle from among the feet of the horses, and had laid it on the basement of the fountain, and was down in the mud and wet, howling over it like a wild animal.
austen|I write rather slowly.
austen|The simplicity and cheerfulness of her nature, her contented and grateful spirit, were a recommendation to every body, and a mine of felicity to herself.
austen|But as it is, you must not let your fancy run away with you.
austen|How she could have been so deceived!
dickens|It will presently be seen that the question was not before me in a distinct shape until it was put before me by a wiser head than my own.
dickens|They had the air of a rough tribunal; Jacques One and Two sitting on the old palletbed, each with his chin resting on his hand, and his eyes intent on the roadmender; Jacques Three, equally intent, on one knee behind them, with his agitated hand always gliding over the network of fine nerves about his mouth and nose; Defarge standing between them and the narrator, whom he had stationed in the light of the window, by turns looking from him to them, and from them to him.
dickens|I invited Wemmick to come upstairs, and refresh himself with a glass of grog before walking to Walworth.
dickens|I demand of Heaven, will he not come to deliver me?
austen|There was no arguing upon such a project.
dickens|Madame Defarge, with her arms folded, sat in the morning light and heat, contemplating the wineshop and the street.
austen|Short had been the noticeshort their meeting; he was gone; and Emma felt so sorry to part, and foresaw so great a loss to their little society from his absence as to begin to be afraid of being too sorry, and feeling it too much.
dickens|And now, indeed, I felt as if my last anchor were loosening its hold, and I should soon be driving with the winds and waves.
austen|Emma thought it most prudent to go with her.
dickens|Though I really see no reason why she should have worn it at all; or why, if she did wear it at all, she should not have taken it off, every day of her life.
dickens|He helped him so far to arouse the rocking figure before the dying embers, as to get a cloak and hat put upon it, and to tempt it forth to find where the bench and work were hidden that it still moaningly besought to have.
austen|If my vanity had taken a musical turn, you would have been invaluable; but as it is, I would really rather not sit down before those who must be in the habit of hearing the very best performers.
austen|Oh!
dickens|Let me tell you what evidence I have seen of it.
dickens|It was a comfort to shake hands upon it, and walk up and down again, with only that done.
austen|What a precious deposit!
austen|There was no bearing such an always; and to break through her dreadful gratitude, Emma made the direct inquiry of  Wheremay I ask?
austen|Yes, indeed, cried Mrs Bennet, offended by his manner of mentioning a country neighbourhood.
dickens|The few who were passing passed on their several ways, and the street was empty when I turned back into the Temple.
dickens|But I saw that everything within my view which ought to be white, had been white long ago, and had lost its lustre and was faded and yellow.
dickens|cried Miss Havisham, passionately striking her stick upon the floor; you are tired of me.
austen|With a stronger voice she soon added, I have this comfort immediately, that it has not been more than an error of fancy on my side, and that it has done no harm to anyone but myself.
dickens|This occasion shall not entirely pass without that affability on your part.
dickens|Be comforted!
dickens|What did you say?
austen|There is not a bit of fish to be got today.
dickens|There were the four blackened walls, and a rusted iron ring in one of them.
dickens|You know the young ladys father, Pip?
austen|The party then gathered round the fire to hear Lady Catherine determine what weather they were to have on the morrow.
austen|Dearer, much dearer than ever.
austen|had she never brought Harriet forward!
dickens|Nothing less than the frosty light of the cheerful sky, the sight of people passing beyond the bars of the courtyard gate, and the reviving influence of the rest of the bread and meat and beer, would have brought me round.
austen|But her mind was so busily engaged, that she did not always know when she was silent.
dickens|They both listened.
austen|They want her Mr and Mrs Dixon excessively to come over with Colonel and Mrs Campbell; quite depend upon it; nothing can be more kind or pressing than their joint invitation, Jane says, as you will hear presently; Mr Dixon does not seem in the least backward in any attention.
austen|How much worse, had they been obliged to meet!
dickens|Ay!
dickens|You are free from that misfortune, however.
austen|Some people are surprized, I believe, that the eldest was not, but Isabella would have him called Henry, which I thought very pretty of her.
austen|His behaviour to us has, in every respect, been as pleasing as when we were in Derbyshire.
austen|Oftentimes very convenient, no doubt, but never pleasing.
austen|Is not general incivility the very essence of love?
austen|There is also one other person in the party, he continued after a pause, who more particularly wishes to be known to you.
austen|He was too happy, however, to need much attention; and luckily for the others, the business of lovemaking relieved them from a great deal of his company.
austen|The introduction, however, was immediately made; and as she named their relationship to herself, she stole a sly look at him, to see how he bore it, and was not without the expectation of his decamping as fast as he could from such disgraceful companions.
dickens|Ive come to the old country fur to see my gentleman spend his money like a gentleman.
austen|He was immediately qualifying himself to form an opinion, by giving her very proper attention, after the introduction had passed.
dickens|Hunger was the inscription on the bakers shelves, written in every small loaf of his scanty stock of bad bread; at the sausageshop, in every deaddog preparation that was offered for sale.
dickens|Well, said Joe, passing the poker in to his left hand, that he might feel his whisker; and I had no hope of him whenever he took to that placid occupation; your sisters a mastermind.
austen|It seemed the best scheme; and yet it was not so good but that many of them wanted a better.
austen|From this day you must be a stranger to one of your parents.
dickens|Why should you?
austen|She was in dancing, singing, exclaiming spirits; and till she had moved about, and talked to herself, and laughed and reflected, she could be fit for nothing rational.
dickens|Five were to be tried together, next, as enemies of the Republic, forasmuch as they had not assisted it by word or deed.
austen|Oh!
dickens|He murmured for answer True.
dickens|To this effect, in as few or fewer words, the Public Prosecutor.
dickens|And why?
austen|There was no getting at her real opinion.
dickens|How many to the Guillotine today?
dickens|She has never allowed herself to be seen doing either, since she lived this present life of hers.
dickens|Your sister is given to government.
austen|Elizabeth listened as little as she could, but there was no escaping the frequent mention of Wickhams name.
austen|Pursuing her way along the lane, she then began it.
austen|At Brighton she will be of less importance even as a common flirt than she has been here.
austen|He presently added, with a smile,  I do not pretend to fix on times or places, but I must tell you that I have good reason to believe your little friend will soon hear of something to her advantage.
dickens|As the rider rattled down the hill again and through the street, the village was illuminating.
dickens|I detested the chambers beyond expression at that period of repentance, and could not endure the sight of the Avengers livery; which had a more expensive and a less remunerative appearance then than at any other time in the fourandtwenty hours.
austen|No, papa, nobody thought of your walking.
austen|And it was spoken with a sort of sighing animation, which had a vast deal of the lover.
austen|That a man who might have spent his evening quietly at home after a day of business in London, should set off again, and walk half a mile to another mans house, for the sake of being in mixed company till bedtime, of finishing his day in the efforts of civility and the noise of numbers, was a circumstance to strike him deeply.
austen|This is a sort of dulllooking evening, that ought to be treated rather as winter than summer.
austen|At ten years old, she had the misfortune of being able to answer questions which puzzled her sister at seventeen.
dickens|He knew her to be so, without looking at her, and said  Pray forgive me, Miss Manette.
austen|Yes, I willI declare I willand you shall see how she takes it;whether she colours.
dickens|See!
dickens|My father thought you would get on more agreeably through tomorrow with me than with him, and might like to take a walk about London.
dickens|He sank into the chair, and brooded over the embers, and shed tears.
dickens|Touch then.
dickens|Gravely, Handel, for the subject is grave enough, you know how it is as well as I do.
austen|He expressed no regret for what he had done which satisfied her; his style was not penitent, but haughty.
dickens|At last, when we got to his place of business and he pulled out his key from his coatcollar, he looked as unconscious of his Walworth property as if the Castle and the drawbridge and the arbor and the lake and the fountain and the Aged, had all been blown into space together by the last discharge of the Stinger.
dickens|At the back, theres a pig, and there are fowls and rabbits; then, I knock together my own little frame, you see, and grow cucumbers; and youll judge at supper what sort of a salad I can raise.
austen|But in all, and in almost every line of each, there was a want of that cheerfulness which had been used to characterise her style, and which, proceeding from the serenity of a mind at ease with itself and kindly disposed towards everyone, had been scarcely ever clouded.
austen|Yours, etc.
dickens|There, again!
austen|She had once or twice suggested to Elizabeth the possibility of his being partial to her, but Elizabeth always laughed at the idea; and Mrs Collins did not think it right to press the subject, from the danger of raising expectations which might only end in disappointment; for in her opinion it admitted not of a doubt, that all her friends dislike would vanish, if she could suppose him to be in her power.
austen|and what can he have to say?
austen|But, now that she has written her letters, she says she shall soon be well.
austen|she cried with more thorough gaiety, if you fancy your brother does not do me justice, only wait till my dear father is in the secret, and hear his opinion.
austen|Mrs Bennet rejoiced to see Jane in undiminished beauty; and more than once during dinner did Mr Bennet say voluntarily to Elizabeth  I am glad you are come back, Lizzy.
dickens|Ah!
austen|The very mention of anything concerning the match threw her into an agony of illhumour, and wherever she went she was sure of hearing it talked of.
dickens|He added as a selfevident proposition, engendering low spirits, But you cant marry, you know, while youre looking about you.
dickens|Although Miss Pross, through her long association with a French family, might have known as much of their language as of her own, if she had had a mind, she had no mind in that direction; consequently she knew no more of that nonsense as she was pleased to call it than Mr Cruncher did.
dickens|Ah!
dickens|I do.
dickens|Shall I give you a ride, Miss Havisham?
dickens|Administering the definition like Tarwater.
dickens|It is very high; it is a little difficult.
dickens|Then, there were gardens, courtyards, terraces, fountains, green banks, more King and Queen, more Bulls Eye, more lords and ladies, more Long live they all!
austen|Promise me, therefore, to come to Hunsford.
austen|La!
dickens|This is kind!
austen|Oh!
dickens|Answering the touch for a moment, but not coldly, her father rested his hands upon the arms of his chair, and looked up for the first time since the beginning of the conference.
dickens|The deeper he sank into this silence, the fainter hope there wasor so Darnay thoughtof his softening in any slight degree.
dickens|Miss Pross had lighted the lamp, but had put it aside in a corner, that they might enjoy the firelight undisturbed.
austen|Mrs Elton was very much disappointed.
austen|It was our darling wish that you might be attached to each otherand we were persuaded that it was so.
dickens|He then put up the pocketbook and set the candle a little aside, after peering round it into the darkness at Joe and me, to ascertain which was which.
dickens|Wait a moment, and youll hear Clara lift him up to take some.
dickens|Without I was informed agen, the danger aint so much to signify.
austen|She will break it to you better than I can.
dickens|I pointed to where our village lay, on the flat inshore among the aldertrees and pollards, a mile or more from the church.
austen|The younger girls formed hopes of coming out a year or two sooner than they might otherwise have done; and the boys were relieved from their apprehension of Charlottes dying an old maid.
dickens|After some mental debating of the point, he came to the conclusion that it would be as well to get all the preliminaries done with, and they could then arrange at their leisure whether he should give her his hand a week or two before Michaelmas Term, or in the little Christmas vacation between it and Hilary.
austen|You make me laugh, Charlotte; but it is not sound.
austen|She owned that, considering every thing, she was not absolutely without inclination for the party.
austen|He wishes exceedingly to come; but his uncle and aunt will not spare him.
dickens|Dead, is he?
austen|Elizabeths mind was now relieved from a very heavy weight; and, after half an hours quiet reflection in her own room, she was able to join the others with tolerable composure.
austen|There was novelty in the scheme, and as, with such a mother and such uncompanionable sisters, home could not be faultless, a little change was not unwelcome for its own sake.
dickens|She said it aloud, but added to herself, as she resumed her knitting Hah!
austen|They will come and stand by my chair, and say, Grandpapa, can you give me a bit of string?
dickens|said he.
dickens|Every afternoon at about the time when the public lamps were lighted, they fared forth on this duty, and made and brought home such purchases as were needful.
dickens|By the time she had been hailed and stopped, both steamers were drifting away from us, and we were rising and falling in a troubled wake of water.
austen|What news do you mean?
dickens|The chateau, and all the race?
austen|I am serious, Miss Woodhouse, whatever your penetrating eyes may fancyI am sick of Englandand would leave it tomorrow, if I could.
dickens|Her father had not been seen, since he quitted the bankinghouse towards four oclock.
austen|It is difficult indeedit is distressing.
dickens|Some of the windows had been walled up; of those that remained, all the lower were rustily barred.
dickens|Shall I leave you twenty guineas?
austen|Colonel Fitzwilliam entered into conversation directly with the readiness and ease of a wellbred man, and talked very pleasantly; but his cousin, after having addressed a slight observation on the house and garden to Mrs Collins, sat for some time without speaking to anybody.
dickens|Its Herbert!
dickens|It was when you came in.
dickens|Tellsons they said wanted no elbowroom, Tellsons wanted no light, Tellsons wanted no embellishment.
austen|My dear, how am I to get so far?
austen|Nay, he appeared so much otherwise, that his daughters courage failed.
dickens|I am told by Biddy, that air the writing, said Joe, repeating the legal turn as if it did him infinite good, account of him the said Matthew.
austen|She could not think that Harriets solace or her own sins required more; and she was therefore industriously getting rid of the subject as they returned;but it burst out again when she thought she had succeeded, and after speaking some time of what the poor must suffer in winter, and receiving no other answer than a very plaintiveMr Elton is so good to the poor!
dickens|I was fully old enough now to be apprenticed to Joe; and when Joe sat with the poker on his knees thoughtfully raking out the ashes between the lower bars, my sister would so distinctly construe that innocent action into opposition on his part, that she would dive at him, take the poker out of his hands, shake him, and put it away.
austen|Was not it delightful?
austen|Will you?
dickens|Say of you, Miss Manette, and although I know betteralthough in the mystery of my own wretched heart I know betterI shall never forget it!
dickens|There, his eyes happening to catch the tall joker writing up his joke, he called to him across the way  Say, then, my Gaspard, what do you do there?
austen|What do I not owe you!
dickens|There was a chair against the wall of the cell, behind the prisoner.
dickens|Then you mean to tell me, Mr Lorry, said Stryver, squaring his elbows, that it is your deliberate opinion that the young lady at present in question is a mincing Fool?
dickens|I insensibly fall into a general mention of these journeys as numerous, because it was at once settled that I should return every alternate day at noon for these purposes, and because I am now going to sum up a period of at least eight or ten months.
dickens|His uneasiness increasing instead of subsiding, after a quarter of an hours consideration, he set off for the coachoffice with Startop, who volunteered his company, to make inquiry when the next coach went down.
dickens|Where is Manette?
austen|Contrary to the usual course of things, Mr Eltons wanting to pay his addresses to her had sunk him in her opinion.
dickens|He held on, in a dull persistent way, and Estella held him on; now with encouragement, now with discouragement, now almost flattering him, now openly despising him, now knowing him very well, now scarcely remembering who he was.
austen|In a few days Mr Bingley returned Mr Bennets visit, and sat about ten minutes with him in his library.
dickens|At length we descried a light and a roof, and presently afterwards ran alongside a little causeway made of stones that had been picked up hard by.
dickens|And so exactly was the expression repeated on the fair young face of her who had crept along the wall to a point where she could see him, and where she now stood looking at him, with hands which at first had been only raised in frightened compassion, if not even to keep him off and shut out the sight of him, but which were now extending towards him, trembling with eagerness to lay the spectral face upon her warm young breast, and love it back to life and hopeso exactly was the expression repeated though in stronger characters on her fair young face, that it looked as though it had passed like a moving light, from him to her.
dickens|For other crimes as tyrants and oppressors, I have this race a long time on my register, doomed to destruction and extermination.
dickens|The meaning, monsieur?
dickens|In a little while we had shut the door of the dark and empty sluicehouse, and were passing through the quarry on our way back.
dickens|One night I was sitting in the chimney corner with my slate, expending great efforts on the production of a letter to Joe.
dickens|And he hammered at me with a wigor only to be equalled by the wigor with which he didnt hammer at his anwil.
dickens|He gently places her with her back to the crashing engine that constantly whirrs up and falls, and she looks into his face and thanks him.
austen|Mr Knightley grew angry.
dickens|No.
dickens|Monsieur the Marquis ran his eyes over them all, as if they had been mere rats come out of their holes.
dickens|What was said in this disappointing anticlimax, by the disciples of the Good Republican Brutus of Antiquity, except that it was something very voluble and loud, would have been as so much Hebrew or Chaldean to Miss Pross and her protector, though they had been all ears.
dickens|Without expecting any thanks, or anything of the sort, resumed Camilla, I have remained in that state, hours and hours, and Raymond is a witness of the extent to which I have choked, and what the total inefficacy of ginger has been, and I have been heard at the pianoforte tuners across the street, where the poor mistaken children have even supposed it to be pigeons cooing at a distance,and now to be told  Here Camilla put her hand to her throat, and began to be quite chemical as to the formation of new combinations there.
dickens|I read with my watch upon the table, purposing to close my book at eleven oclock.
austen|I have no thoughts of matrimony at present.
dickens|It cant be.
austen|Come, sir, pray let me hear it.
dickens|Will you please to enter the carriage?
austen|His first proposition and request, that the dance begun at Mr Coles should be finished therethat the same party should be collected, and the same musician engaged, met with the readiest acquiescence.
austen|She thinks nobody equal to him.
dickens|Indeed, sir?
austen|Have you heard from Mrs John Knightley lately?
austen|Yes, indeed, his friends may well rejoice in his having met with one of the very few sensible women who would have accepted him, or have made him happy if they had.
dickens|The Raymond referred to, I understood to be the gentleman present, and him I understood to be Mr Camilla.
dickens|And looked down at his leg.
austen|How could she have been so brutal, so cruel to Miss Bates!
austen|They always continue to grow sufficiently unlike afterwards to have their share of vexation; and it is better to know as little as possible of the defects of the person with whom you are to pass your life.
austen|She would soon be well, and happy, and prosperous.
austen|I cannot separate Miss Fairfax and her complexion.
dickens|And never believe me on mine, if Pip shant make a gentleman on you!
austen|Oh!
austen|Emma would not agree to this, and began a warm defence of Miss Fairfaxs complexion.
austen|For my mother had no use of her spectaclescould not put them on.
dickens|You had abandoned all hope of being dug out?
austen|Mr Darcys behaviour astonished and vexed her.
dickens|Monseigneur having eased his four men of their burdens and taken his chocolate, caused the doors of the Holiest of Holiests to be thrown open, and issued forth.
austen|Oh!
dickens|I am highly gratified, said Mr Lorry, though, upon my honour, I had no intention of rendering those trifling articles of remembrance invisible to any one.
dickens|I send it to her by you.
austen|She was, moreover, perpetually hearing about him; for, excepting when at Hartfield, she was always among those who saw no fault in Mr Elton, and found nothing so interesting as the discussion of his concerns; and every report, therefore, every guessall that had already occurred, all that might occur in the arrangement of his affairs, comprehending income, servants, and furniture, was continually in agitation around her.
austen|Isabella stept in after her father; John Knightley, forgetting that he did not belong to their party, stept in after his wife very naturally; so that Emma found, on being escorted and followed into the second carriage by Mr Elton, that the door was to be lawfully shut on them, and that they were to have a teteatete drive.
dickens|Both her hearers derived a horrible enjoyment from the deadly nature of her wraththe listener could feel how white she was, without seeing herand both highly commended it.
dickens|I was hungry, but before I had swallowed a morsel, he began a running sum that lasted all through the breakfast.
dickens|I saw that the dress had been put upon the rounded figure of a young woman, and that the figure upon which it now hung loose had shrunk to skin and bone.
dickens|Yes, I am.
dickens|But I knew them well, and could have found my way on a far darker night, and had no excuse for returning, being there.
dickens|I told you you had a remarkable face, Mr Barsad, observed Carton, coolly.
dickens|She might think a thousand things, Carton said, and any of them would only add to her trouble.
austen|You had, somehow or other, broken bounds yesterday, and run away from your own management; but today you are got back againand as I cannot be always with you, it is best to believe your temper under your own command rather than mine.
dickens|It is always as the good patriot says, observed the functionary.
dickens|Are you bringing numbers five and eight, you vagabond, said Mr Trabb to the boy after that, or shall I kick you out of the shop and bring them myself?
austen|And so, my dear sister, I find, from our uncle and aunt, that you have actually seen Pemberley.
dickens|Well?
dickens|How could they have a place in the shadowy conceptions of a gentle mind?
austen|You will only think I feel more than I ought to do, when I tell you all.
dickens|When I got into my little room, I sat down and took a long look at it, as a mean little room that I should soon be parted from and raised above, for ever.
austen|Mrs Bennet sent them word that they could not possibly have the carriage before Tuesday; and in her postscript it was added, that if Mr Bingley and his sister pressed them to stay longer, she could spare them very well.
dickens|I see him winning it so well, that my name is made illustrious there by the light of his.
austen|Come, shake hands with me.
austen|Tell her that you insist upon her marrying him.
dickens|A lord?
austen|It will not do.
dickens|Quick, friend, quick!
austen|A small halfglass, put into a tumbler of water?
dickens|How many more!
austen|I have suspected it some time, but I am now convinced.
austen|Upon my word!
dickens|Goodness knows, Uncle Pumblechook, said my sister grasping the money, were deeply beholden to you.
dickens|Getting evidence together, said Mr Wemmick, as we came out, for the Bailey.
dickens|Whether he had really been to any one, or whether he had been all that time traversing the streets, was never known.
austen|In spite of having been at St.
dickens|Hark!
austen|She replied in the affirmative.
austen|But I must not propose it yet.
dickens|That the place could possibly be, without her, was something my mind seemed unable to compass; and whereas she had seldom or never been in my thoughts of late, I had now the strangest ideas that she was coming towards me in the street, or that she would presently knock at the door.
dickens|But the forge was a very short distance off, and I went towards it under the sweet green limes, listening for the clink of Joes hammer.
austen|Dont pretend to be in raptures about mine.
dickens|For such reasons, I was very glad when ten oclock came and we started for Miss Havishams; though I was not at all at my ease regarding the manner in which I should acquit myself under that ladys roof.
dickens|I told him I must go, but he took no notice, so I thought the best thing I could do was to slip off.
austen|My friend Mr Perry!
dickens|O you enemy, you enemy!
austen|But does not Jane correspond with his sister?
austen|On the contrary, there is something pleasing about his mouth when he speaks.
dickens|I think I recollect though, that you read with his father?
dickens|I call it my Little Guillotine.
austen|What think you of books?
dickens|I believe they were fat, though I was at that time undersized for my years, and not strong.
dickens|Receiving this as an intimation that it was best not to delay, I settled that I would go tomorrow, and said so.
dickens|Again he took both my hands and put them to his lips, while my blood ran cold within me.
dickens|Whenever I fell asleep, I awoke with the notion I had had in the sluicehouse, that a long time had elapsed and the opportunity to save him was gone.
austen|I dare say he has; and though it may cut him off from some advantages, it will secure him many others.
dickens|I said confusedly that that was long ago, and that I knew no better then, and the like.
dickens|He was the only passenger who came on board in the dead of the night?
dickens|To no one.
dickens|Finally, with a deep long sigh, he took the shoe up, and resumed his work.
dickens|I was much engaged that day, and could not complete my letter that night.
austen|It was all read, however, steadily, attentively, and without the smallest remark; and, excepting one momentary glance at her, instantly withdrawn, in the fear of giving painno remembrance of Box Hill seemed to exist.
austen|Once or twice she could discern a faint blush; but in general Charlotte wisely did not hear.
austen|Their situation was awkward enough; but hers she thought was still worse.
dickens|Yours is a long life to look back upon, sir?
dickens|I said glancing at Joe, who stood looking on, motionless, that I supposed I could come directly.
dickens|said Drummle.
austen|Elizabeth now expected that she would produce a letter for her from Charlotte, as it seemed the only probable motive for her calling.
dickens|Hemmed in here by the massive thickness of walls and arches, the storm within the fortress and without was only audible to them in a dull, subdued way, as if the noise out of which they had come had almost destroyed their sense of hearing.
austen|My objections to the marriage were not merely those which I last night acknowledged to have the utmost force of passion to put aside, in my own case; the want of connection could not be so great an evil to my friend as to me.
dickens|The shoe dropped to the ground, and he sat looking fixedly at the questioner.
dickens|Though I put it to yourself, sir, whether it were calclated to keep a man up to his work with a good hart, to be continiwally cutting in betwixt him and the Ghost with Amen!
austen|Unwelcome as it was, Mr Woodhouse could only give a submissive sigh; and as Emma saw his spirits affected by the idea of his daughters attachment to her husband, she immediately led to such a branch of the subject as must raise them.
dickens|In that same juncture of time when the FiftyTwo awaited their fate Madame Defarge held darkly ominous council with The Vengeance and Jacques Three of the Revolutionary Jury.
austen|How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet looks this morning, Mr Darcy, she cried; I never in my life saw anyone so much altered as she is since the winter.
austen|Jane recollected herself soon, and putting the letter away, tried to join with her usual cheerfulness in the general conversation; but Elizabeth felt an anxiety on the subject which drew off her attention even from Wickham; and no sooner had he and his companion taken leave, than a glance from Jane invited her to follow her up stairs.
dickens|cried Mr Lorry, thoroughly heated by his indifference, business is a very good thing, and a very respectable thing.
austen|Well, my comfort is, I am sure Jane will die of a broken heart; and then he will be sorry for what he has done.
dickens|Joseph!
austen|If it were admissible to contradict a lady, said the gallant Mr Elton  I have perhaps given her a little more decision of character, have taught her to think on points which had not fallen in her way before.
dickens|Crowding up with these reflections came the reflection that I had seen him with my childish eyes to be a desperately violent man; that I had heard that other convict reiterate that he had tried to murder him; that I had seen him down in the ditch tearing and fighting like a wild beast.
dickens|The raggedest nightcap, awry on the wretchedest head, had this crooked significance in it I know how hard it has grown for me, the wearer of this, to support life in myself; but do you know how easy it has grown for me, the wearer of this, to destroy life in you?
austen|She was a woman of mean understanding, little information, and uncertain temper.
austen|The ladies here probably exchanged looks which meant, Men never know when things are dirty or not; and the gentlemen perhaps thought each to himself, Women will have their little nonsenses and needless cares.
austen|Marriage, in fact, would not do for her.
austen|But that is one great difference between us.
austen|Can it be woman?
dickens|A four, said the Jack, and two sitters.
dickens|Down banks and up banks, and over gates, and splashing into dikes, and breaking among coarse rushes no man cared where he went.
austen|But not before they went to Brighton?
austen|I congratulate you, Mr Weston, with all my heart, on the prospect of having one of the most lovely and accomplished young women in England for your daughter.
dickens|She had never been quite at her ease with him, and received him with some little embarrassment as he seated himself near her table.
austen|It was in The Times and The Courier, I know; though it was not put in as it ought to be.
austen|Depend upon it, my dear, that when there are twenty, I will visit them all.
austen|We were always glad to see him at Hartfield.
dickens|It was somewhere here?
dickens|His arm trembled as it raised her, and supported her head.
austen|She represented to him all the improprieties of Lydias general behaviour, the little advantage she could derive from the friendship of such a woman as Mrs Forster, and the probability of her being yet more imprudent with such a companion at Brighton, where the temptations must be greater than at home.
dickens|I had the honour of knowing him there.
dickens|In heavens name, said I, firing in spite of myself, what does it matter to you where I am going?
austen|I condition for nothing else; but without music, life would be a blank to me.
dickens|There were stronger differences between him and her than there had been between him and his father, and it is suspected that he cherished a deep and mortal grudge against her as having influenced the fathers anger.
dickens|This was a hard thing to bear, but this was nothing.
dickens|She gave me to understand on the stairs, that it was a blow to dear Mrs Pocket that dear Mr Pocket should be under the necessity of receiving gentlemen to read with him.
dickens|He had prepared a collation for me in the Barnwell parlor, and he too ordered his shopman to come out of the gangway as my sacred person passed.
dickens|I dont know, returned the man, clapping his hands to his mouth nevertheless, and vociferating in a surprising heat and with the greatest ardour, Spies!
austen|He protested that he had never thought seriously of Harrietnever!
dickens|He faltered for an instant; then went on as before.
austen|I do not cough for my own amusement, replied Kitty fretfully.
dickens|Joe gave it me, but was thoughtful.
dickens|Not here?
dickens|They had lounged away in a povertystricken, purposeless, accidental manner, quite natural and unimpeachable.
dickens|You know my vagabond and restless habits.
austen|Had they a large neighbourhood?
dickens|Say that likewise, retorted Pumblechook.
austen|His letter was soon dispatched; for, though dilatory in undertaking business, he was quick in its execution.
austen|He spoke well; but there were feelings besides those of the heart to be detailed; and he was not more eloquent on the subject of tenderness than of pride.
dickens|I said.
austen|All this ran so glibly through her thoughts, that by the time her father had arranged himself, after the bustle of the Eltons departure, and was ready to speak, she was very tolerably capable of attending.
austen|Well!
dickens|Why look at her!
dickens|I knew it to be Joes file, and I knew that he knew my convict, the moment I saw the instrument.
austen|You wrote me word of it three months ago.
austen|It is a long time, Mr Bingley, since you went away, said Mrs Bennet.
dickens|said he, repeating my words to Biddy in the last interview I had with her.
dickens|The spy, who was pale, turned paler, and asked him how he dared  Ill tell you, said Sydney.
dickens|Heaven grant I may, Carton!
dickens|He was not missed; for, nobody who crossed the threshold looked for him, nobody asked for him, nobody wondered to see only Madame Defarge in her seat, presiding over the distribution of wine, with a bowl of battered small coins before her, as much defaced and beaten out of their original impress as the small coinage of humanity from whose ragged pockets they had come.
dickens|If the Day of Judgment had only been ascertained to be a dress day, everybody there would have been eternally correct.
dickens|Mr Wopsle died amiably at Camberwell, and exceedingly game on Bosworth Field, and in the greatest agonies at Glastonbury.
austen|They were then, with no other delay than his pointing out the neatness of the entrance, taken into the house; and as soon as they were in the parlour, he welcomed them a second time, with ostentatious formality to his humble abode, and punctually repeated all his wifes offers of refreshment.
dickens|My patient died, two hours before midnightat a time, by my watch, answering almost to the minute when I had first seen her.
austen|We are persuaded that he has pledged himself to assist Mr Wickham with money.
austen|He was invited to contribute any really good enigmas, charades, or conundrums that he might recollect; and she had the pleasure of seeing him most intently at work with his recollections; and at the same time, as she could perceive, most earnestly careful that nothing ungallant, nothing that did not breathe a compliment to the sex should pass his lips.
austen|Astonishment, apprehension, and even horror, oppressed her.
austen|He had by that time reached it also, and, holding out a letter, which she instinctively took, said, with a look of haughty composure, I have been walking in the grove some time in the hope of meeting you.
austen|but from what the report of their engagement could originate, Elizabeth was at a loss to imagine; till she recollected that his being the intimate friend of Bingley, and her being the sister of Jane, was enough, at a time when the expectation of one wedding made everybody eager for another, to supply the idea.
austen|Well, Lizzy, continued her mother, soon afterwards, and so the Collinses live very comfortable, do they?
dickens|There Joe cut himself short, and informed me that I was to be talked to in great moderation, and that I was to take a little nourishment at stated frequent times, whether I felt inclined for it or not, and that I was to submit myself to all his orders.
dickens|There is no better, the voluble Vengeance protested in her shrill notes, in France.
dickens|said she.
dickens|Everybody knowed Magwitch, and Magwitch could come, and Magwitch could go, and nobodys head would be troubled about him.
dickens|Long live the Devil!
austen|And if you will stay another month complete, it will be in my power to take one of you as far as London, for I am going there early in June, for a week; and as Dawson does not object to the barouchebox, there will be very good room for one of youand indeed, if the weather should happen to be cool, I should not object to taking you both, as you are neither of you large.
austen|You have deprived the best years of his life of that independence which was no less his due than his desert.
dickens|I go through no streets and past no fountains.
austen|They walked on.
dickens|Jerry started in his saddle.
dickens|Of course youll go wrong somehow, but thats no fault of mine.
austen|The sitting began; and Harriet, smiling and blushing, and afraid of not keeping her attitude and countenance, presented a very sweet mixture of youthful expression to the steady eyes of the artist.
dickens|Mrs Pocket acted on the advice, and inexpertly danced the infant a little in her lap, while the other children played about it.
austen|He seemed to be almost asking her, whether her affections were engaged.
austen|I never heard of such a thing.
dickens|You are late, I remarked.
austen|Considering how very handsome she is, she appears to be little occupied with it; her vanity lies another way.
dickens|So we are not much alike in that particular.
dickens|Sing!
austen|And Jane declaresWell!
dickens|She has gone out on some household matters, but will soon be home.
austen|It would be a charming introduction for you, who have lived so secluded a life; and I could immediately secure you some of the best society in the place.
dickens|But they wouldnt leave me alone.
austen|It will be natural for me, he added shortly afterwards, to speak my opinion aloud as I read.
dickens|Do we part on this, you visionary boyor man?
dickens|Will soon come to London, said I, after casting about for a precise form of words, or summon me anywhere else?
dickens|John Barsad, repeated madame, after murmuring it once to herself.
austen|Emma soon saw that her companion was not in the happiest humour.
dickens|Mrs Coiler then changed the subject and began to flatter me.
austen|Elizabeth had frequently united with Jane in an endeavour to check the imprudence of Catherine and Lydia; but while they were supported by their mothers indulgence, what chance could there be of improvement?
dickens|said a ragged and submissive man, it is a child.
austen|In what an amiable light does this place him!
dickens|The narrative called up the most revengeful passions of the time, and there was not a head in the nation but must have dropped before it.
austen|That the wish of giving happiness to you might add force to the other inducements which led me on, I shall not attempt to deny.
dickens|Now and then, the sound of the signal cannon broke upon us again, and again rolled sulkily along the course of the river.
austen|So high and so conceited that there was no enduring him!
dickens|The late Compeyson having been beforehand with him in intelligence of his return, and being so determined to bring him to book, I do not think he could have been saved.
austen|If she does wrong, she ought to feel it.
austen|You know my mothers ideas as to the necessity of constant company for her friends.
dickens|At this the crowd roared approval.
austen|No, to be sure you could not; but I never thought of that before.
austen|She went on herself, to give that portion of time to an old servant who was married, and settled in Donwell.
dickens|I could have told you that, Orlick.
dickens|After a few dull efforts to get to sleep again, which the man dexterously combated by stirring the fire continuously for five minutes, he got up, tossed his hat on, and walked out.
austen|My overhearings were more to the purpose than yours, Eliza, said Charlotte.
austen|This is a parade, he cried, which does one good; it gives such an elegance to misfortune!
austen|They had stopped at Mrs Batess door to offer the use of their carriage, but the aunt and niece were to be brought by the Eltons.
austen|So mild and ladylikeand with such talents!
austen|He will have every bodys wishes for his happiness.
austen|Decidedly, I think, a very gentlemanlike man.
austen|Its tendency would be to raise and refine her mindand it must be saving her from the danger of degradation.
austen|Me!
austen|I can easily believe it.
dickens|Charles Evremonde, called Darnay, was at length arraigned.
austen|His aunt is in the way.
dickens|You know I was obliged, said Camilla,I was obliged to be firm.
dickens|He had accomplished the task he had set himself, his promise was redeemed, he had saved Charles.
austen|Miss Woodhouse, what can we do about that?
austen|You surprize me!
dickens|Mr Stryver had left them in the passages, to shoulder his way back to the robingroom.
dickens|But not all of it?
dickens|said he, dryly.
dickens|In one narrow, dark, and dirty street through which they passed, an excited orator, mounted on a stool, was addressing an excited audience on the crimes against the people, of the king and the royal family.
austen|Oh!
austen|Yes, I would.
dickens|First, over yonder; he appeared to mean up the chimney, but I believe he intended to refer me to Liverpool; and then in the City of London here.
dickens|Hah!
dickens|One old man says at the fountain, that his right hand, armed with the knife, will be burnt off before his face; that, into wounds which will be made in his arms, his breast, and his legs, there will be poured boiling oil, melted lead, hot resin, wax, and sulphur; finally, that he will be torn limb from limb by four strong horses.
austen|But I ought to beg his pardon, for I have no right to suppose that Bingley was the person meant.
austen|it is just as he chooses.
austen|I shall have no fears for you with him.
austen|Come be quick, be quick!
austen|Granted;for private enjoyment; and for private enjoyment keep them.
dickens|The shoemaker looked up as before, but without removing a hand from his work.
dickens|Keep your eye on it.
dickens|The figure of my sister in her chair by the kitchen fire, haunted me night and day.
dickens|Please to let me know.
austen|To fortune I am perfectly indifferent, and shall make no demand of that nature on your father, since I am well aware that it could not be complied with; and that one thousand pounds in the four per cents, which will not be yours till after your mothers decease, is all that you may ever be entitled to.
dickens|Yes.
austen|Mr Weston, who had been a widower so long, and who seemed so perfectly comfortable without a wife, so constantly occupied either in his business in town or among his friends here, always acceptable wherever he went, always cheerfulMr Weston need not spend a single evening in the year alone if he did not like it.
dickens|I asked.
dickens|By the firelight, answered Herbert, coming close again.
austen|Elizabeth, however, had never been blind to the impropriety of her fathers behaviour as a husband.
austen|Do not mimic her.
austen|She had not advanced many yards from Mrs Goddards door, when she was met by Mr Elton himself, evidently coming towards it, and as they walked on slowly together in conversation about the invalidof whom he, on the rumour of considerable illness, had been going to inquire, that he might carry some report of her to Hartfieldthey were overtaken by Mr John Knightley returning from the daily visit to Donwell, with his two eldest boys, whose healthy, glowing faces shewed all the benefit of a country run, and seemed to ensure a quick despatch of the roast mutton and rice pudding they were hastening home for.
dickens|And as to the condition on which you hold your advancement in life,namely, that you are not to inquire or discuss to whom you owe it,you may be very sure that it will never be encroached upon, or even approached, by me, or by any one belonging to me.
austen|Indeed!
austen|Harriet, poor Harriet!
austen|in an accent meant to be insinuatingI am sure you have seen and understood me.
austen|It is a great pleasure where one can indulge in it, said the young man, though there are not many houses that I should presume on so far; but in coming home I felt I might do any thing.
austen|Mr Wickham, after a few moments, touched his hata salutation which Mr Darcy just deigned to return.
dickens|said Mr Cruncher to his wife, on entering.
dickens|Thus, we walked through Wemmicks greenhouse, until he turned to me and said, Notice the man I shall shake hands with.
dickens|He forgot the butter in bed, got up from the bedside, and wiped his fingers on the tablecloth, exclaiming, Lord bless my soul!
austen|To be sure, Lizzy, said her aunt, he is not so handsome as Wickham; or, rather, he has not Wickhams countenance, for his features are perfectly good.
austen|A military life is not what I was intended for, but circumstances have now made it eligible.
dickens|Now, Herbert, said I, with reference to gaining some knowledge of his history.
dickens|So I said boldly, as if I had originated it, and must beg to insist upon it, Massive and concrete.
austen|Before Elizabeth had time for anything but a blush of surprise, Mrs Bennet answered instantly, Oh dear!
dickens|No doubt, no doubt.
austen|They were both in ecstasies.
austen|To Carolines assertion of her brothers being partial to Miss Darcy she paid no credit.
austen|My acquaintance with him has been but trifling.
austen|Emma watched her through the fluctuations of this speech, and saw no alarming symptoms of love.
dickens|I attended him in his last illness.
austen|Well, how pleased I am!
austen|Yes, sir, I know I am.
dickens|Is he alone?
dickens|Spies!
austen|They are going to be encamped near Brighton; and I do so want papa to take us all there for the summer!
austen|We must not expect a lively young man to be always so guarded and circumspect.
dickens|The striking of the clock aroused me, but not from my dejection or remorse, and I got up and had my coat fastened round my neck, and went out.
dickens|By degrees, as they could bear no more, they dropped off one by one, and lights twinkled in little casements; which lights, as the casements darkened, and more stars came out, seemed to have shot up into the sky instead of having been extinguished.
austen|Pray take care, Miss Woodhouse, ours is rather a dark staircaserather darker and narrower than one could wish.
austen|Here comes Hill!
austen|But if you will listen to his letter, you may perhaps be a little softened by his manner of expressing himself.
austen|If he wants our society, let him seek it.
dickens|If we ever get back to our native land, said Miss Pross, you may rely upon my telling Mrs Cruncher as much as I may be able to remember and understand of what you have so impressively said; and at all events you may be sure that I shall bear witness to your being thoroughly in earnest at this dreadful time.
austen|I will go to Meryton, said she, as soon as I am dressed, and tell the good, good news to my sister Philips.
austen|Harriet was farther unfortunate in the tone of her companions at Mrs Goddards; Mr Elton being the adoration of all the teachers and great girls in the school; and it must be at Hartfield only that she could have any chance of hearing him spoken of with cooling moderation or repellent truth.
dickens|Then, said Mr Jaggers, come and dine with me.
austen|Yes; and they have another, who lives somewhere near Cheapside.
austen|It will be her turn soon to be teased, said Miss Lucas.
austen|You may well warn me against such an evil.
dickens|Tellsons Bank by Temple Bar was an oldfashioned place, even in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty.
dickens|Similarly, though with a subtle difference, a species of fervour or intoxication, known, without doubt, to have led some persons to brave the guillotine unnecessarily, and to die by it, was not mere boastfulness, but a wild infection of the wildly shaken public mind.
dickens|I was very much impressed, and not for the first time, by my guardians subtlety.
austen|With a strong prejudice against everything he might say, she began his account of what had happened at Netherfield.
austen|certainly, said Elizabeth, though burning with curiosity; we will ask you no questions.
dickens|Put the case, Pip, that passion and the terror of death had a little shaken the womans intellects, and that when she was set at liberty, she was scared out of the ways of the world, and went to him to be sheltered.
austen|she repeated.
dickens|said Mr Jaggers.
dickens|The sea of black and threatening waters, and of destructive upheaving of wave against wave, whose depths were yet unfathomed and whose forces were yet unknown.
dickens|Then began the rarely lightened toil of the day among the village population.
dickens|With your gracious permission, that was the wonder of it, Monseigneur.
dickens|He came to the rescue at this point, and said in a consolatory and complimentary voice, Camilla, my dear, it is well known that your family feelings are gradually undermining you to the extent of making one of your legs shorter than the other.
dickens|We took our seats at the round table, and my guardian kept Drummle on one side of him, while Startop sat on the other.
dickens|There will be a packet to Calais, tomorrow, drawer?
austen|Ah!
dickens|I never saw you do it yet, muttered Carton.
dickens|When do you cease to work?
austen|They returned, therefore, in good spirits to Longbourn, the village where they lived, and of which they were the principal inhabitants.
dickens|His eyes were turned towards the door, and lighted up as I entered.
dickens|I released her arms, and called the woman to assist me to compose her figure and the dress she had torn.
dickens|interrupted the other, rolling his eye over the landscape.
dickens|You fail, or you go from my words in any partickler, no matter how small it is, and your heart and your liver shall be tore out, roasted, and ate.
dickens|What passenger?
dickens|I took the name of Provis.
dickens|A man who had been soaked in water, and smothered in mud, and lamed by stones, and cut by flints, and stung by nettles, and torn by briars; who limped, and shivered, and glared, and growled; and whose teeth chattered in his head as he seized me by the chin.
dickens|You shall show money with lords for wagers, and beat em!
austen|You forget how much she belongs to Highbury.
dickens|I dont know.
dickens|A parting blessing for our child.
dickens|Monseigneur was about to take his chocolate.
austen|She had no sense of superiority then.
dickens|Be seated.
dickens|He had been known in England as Charles Darnay.
austen|But I,  he soon added, who have had no such charm thrown over my senses, must still see, hear, and remember.
dickens|And if theyre in foreign languages wot I dont understand, I shall be just as proud as if I did.
austen|Mr Darcy was eyeing him with unrestrained wonder, and when at last Mr Collins allowed him time to speak, replied with an air of distant civility.
dickens|The trial was very short and very clear.
austen|I am most thankful that the discovery is made in time for me to pay my respects to him, which I am now going to do, and trust he will excuse my not having done it before.
austen|Sir William Lucas had been formerly in trade in Meryton, where he had made a tolerable fortune, and risen to the honour of knighthood by an address to the king during his mayoralty.
austen|The improvement of spending a night in London was added in time, and the plan became perfect as plan could be.
dickens|I swear I dont see him here, said I.
austen|Something that would do!
austen|In confirmation of this, she related the particulars of all the pecuniary transactions in which they had been connected, without actually naming her authority, but stating it to be such as might be relied on.
dickens|I say.
dickens|Tell me when I ask you, not now.
dickens|Understand, that I express no opinion, one way or other, on the trust I undertake.
austen|Adieu!
dickens|Then I give it, and you have repeated it correctly.
austen|I do assure you that my intimacy has not yet taught me that.
austen|I cannot but wonder, however, at her having any such fears now, because, if he had at all cared about me, we must have met, long ago.
dickens|said Mr Drummle, edging me a little away with his shoulder.
austen|Next time you call, said she, I hope we shall be more lucky.
dickens|Defarge went last, and closed the door.
dickens|Ugh!
austen|To amuse her, and be agreeable in her eyes, seemed all that he cared forand Emma, glad to be enlivened, not sorry to be flattered, was gay and easy too, and gave him all the friendly encouragement, the admission to be gallant, which she had ever given in the first and most animating period of their acquaintance; but which now, in her own estimation, meant nothing, though in the judgment of most people looking on it must have had such an appearance as no English word but flirtation could very well describe.
austen|He must write his own sermons; and the time that remains will not be too much for his parish duties, and the care and improvement of his dwelling, which he cannot be excused from making as comfortable as possible.
dickens|The old man, following my eyes, cried with great triumph, My sons come home!
austen|She felt all the honest pride and complacency which her alliance with the present and future proprietor could fairly warrant, as she viewed the respectable size and style of the building, its suitable, becoming, characteristic situation, low and shelteredits ample gardens stretching down to meadows washed by a stream, of which the Abbey, with all the old neglect of prospect, had scarcely a sightand its abundance of timber in rows and avenues, which neither fashion nor extravagance had rooted up.
dickens|I took him, and giv him up; thats what I done.
dickens|and is laid hands onand theres nothin!
austen|Exactly so, indeedquite unheard ofbut some ladies say any thing.
austen|My mother is so delighted!
dickens|And they fired warning of him.
dickens|For although Mr Trabb had my measure already, and had previously been quite contented with it, he said apologetically that it wouldnt do under existing circumstances, sir,wouldnt do at all.
austen|Mrs Gardiner abused her stupidity.
austen|I am not speaking of its prudence; merely its probability.
austen|How do you do, Miss Smith?
dickens|But it makes no difference to you, you know, said Biddy, calmly.
austen|It was growing late, and Miss Bates became anxious to get home, on her mothers account.
austen|The ladies knew better how to allay it.
austen|But if she continued to play whenever she was asked by Mr Dixon, one may guess what one chuses.
dickens|He watched her as she mused, and the moment she raised her eyes again, went on  In your adopted country, I presume, I cannot do better than address you as a young English lady, Miss Manette?
austen|We talked it all over with Mr Weston last night.
austen|A short pause followed this speech, and Mrs Hurst began again  I have an excessive regard for Miss Jane Bennet, she is really a very sweet girl, and I wish with all my heart she were well settled.
dickens|Yes.
dickens|When he got out of the house, the air was cold and sad, the dull sky overcast, the river dark and dim, the whole scene like a lifeless desert.
dickens|After a blank, I found that I was lying unbound, on the floor, in the same place, with my head on some ones knee.
dickens|Charles Darnay had yesterday pleaded Not Guilty to an indictment denouncing him with infinite jingle and jangle for that he was a false traitor to our serene, illustrious, excellent, and so forth, prince, our Lord the King, by reason of his having, on divers occasions, and by divers means and ways, assisted Lewis, the French King, in his wars against our said serene, illustrious, excellent, and so forth; that was to say, by coming and going, between the dominions of our said serene, illustrious, excellent, and so forth, and those of the said French Lewis, and wickedly, falsely, traitorously, and otherwise eviladverbiously, revealing to the said French Lewis what forces our said serene, illustrious, excellent, and so forth, had in preparation to send to Canada and North America.
dickens|Not a bit on it, dear boy!
dickens|If it had been in my constitution to be a lighter grubber, I might ha got into lighter trouble.
dickens|We shall have helped it, returned madame, with her extended hand in strong action.
dickens|I mention this in this place, of a fixed purpose, because it is the clew by which I am to be followed into my poor labyrinth.
dickens|You was always in Old Orlicks way since ever you was a child.
dickens|Is not this the same place twice over?
austen|The compliments of his neighbours were over; he was no longer teased by being wished joy of so sorrowful an event; and the weddingcake, which had been a great distress to him, was all eat up.
austen|And after such success, you know!
austen|You have every body dearest to you always at hand, I, probably, never shall again; and therefore till I have outlived all my affections, a postoffice, I think, must always have power to draw me out, in worse weather than today.
austen|If we were in the other room, said Emma, if I had my writingdesk, I am sure I could produce a specimen.
austen|Mr Collins received and returned these felicitations with equal pleasure, and then proceeded to relate the particulars of their interview, with the result of which he trusted he had every reason to be satisfied, since the refusal which his cousin had steadfastly given him would naturally flow from her bashful modesty and the genuine delicacy of her character.
dickens|She answered in a low whisper and with caution I had been shut up in these rooms a long time I dont know how long; you know what time the clocks keep here, when I told him that I wanted a little girl to rear and love, and save from my fate.
dickens|I was beginning to remind her that today was Wednesday, when she checked me with her former impatient movement of the fingers of her right hand.
austen|Thursday was to be the wedding day, and on Wednesday Miss Lucas paid her farewell visit; and when she rose to take leave, Elizabeth, ashamed of her mothers ungracious and reluctant good wishes, and sincerely affected herself, accompanied her out of the room.
austen|A thousand things may arise in six months!
dickens|You leave your good father, my dear, in hands as earnest and as loving as your own; he shall be taken every conceivable care of; during the next fortnight, while you are in Warwickshire and thereabouts, even Tellsons shall go to the wall comparatively speaking before him.
austen|The room they were taken into was the one he chiefly occupied, and looking forwards; behind it was another with which it immediately communicated; the door between them was open, and Emma passed into it with the housekeeper to receive her assistance in the most comfortable manner.
dickens|And then you will be married, Herbert?
austen|It was spoken of again while they were at dinner, when Mr Collins joining in, observed  Yes, Miss Elizabeth, you will have the honour of seeing Lady Catherine de Bourgh on the ensuing Sunday at church, and I need not say you will be delighted with her.
austen|Then I will speak the truth, and nothing suits me so well.
dickens|My dear Mr Lorry, it is because I am a Frenchman born, that the thought which I did not mean to utter here, however has passed through my mind often.
dickens|I doubt you must have been a solitary prisoner to understand these perplexed distinctions.
dickens|In the mean time, Wemmick was diving into his coatpockets, and getting something out of paper there.
dickens|Is there no chance person who might identify you in the street?
austen|Is this, thought Elizabeth, meant for me?
austen|When I got to Donwell, said he, Knightley could not be found.
austen|But Mr Knightley is so very fine a man!
austen|She shewed it to me.
dickens|Pip, dear old chap, life is made of ever so many partings welded together, as I may say, and one mans a blacksmith, and ones a whitesmith, and ones a goldsmith, and ones a coppersmith.
dickens|The death close before me was terrible, but far more terrible than death was the dread of being misremembered after death.
dickens|I think you have been drinking, Mr Carton.
austen|From something that he told me in our journey hither, I have reason to think Bingley very much indebted to him.
dickens|There aint no need to go into it, he said, looking round once more.
dickens|The bulllike proceeding last mentioned, besides that it was unquestionably to be regarded in the light of a liberty, was particularly disagreeable just after bread and meat.
austen|I expected to find a more reasonable young woman.
dickens|Ive been a sheepfarmer, stockbreeder, other trades besides, away in the new world, said he; many a thousand mile of stormy water off from this.
austen|Elizabeth disdained the appearance of noticing this civil reflection, but its meaning did not escape, nor was it likely to conciliate her.
dickens|The hard uneven pavement is under us, the soft deep mud is on either side.
dickens|The accuracy of these recitals was sufficiently obvious to me, to give me great confidence in Joes information.
dickens|In every single thing I went for, I went for you.
dickens|That is another way of saying that I am placed on the footing I have indicated.
dickens|To five little stone lozenges, each about a foot and a half long, which were arranged in a neat row beside their grave, and were sacred to the memory of five little brothers of mine,who gave up trying to get a living, exceedingly early in that universal struggle,I am indebted for a belief I religiously entertained that they had all been born on their backs with their hands in their trouserspockets, and had never taken them out in this state of existence.
dickens|Every Christmas Day he presented himself, as a profound novelty, with exactly the same words, and carrying the two bottles like dumbbells.
austen|I know it all; that the young mans marrying her was a patchedup business, at the expence of your father and uncles.
dickens|Now if this doctors wife, though a lady of great courage and spirit, had suffered so intensely from this cause before her little child was born  The little child was a daughter, sir.
dickens|It was when I stood before her, avoiding her eyes, that I took note of the surrounding objects in detail, and saw that her watch had stopped at twenty minutes to nine, and that a clock in the room had stopped at twenty minutes to nine.
dickens|He says it all.
dickens|She quite gloated on these questions and answers, so keen was her enjoyment of Sarah Pockets jealous dismay.
dickens|Dont you be afraid of that.
austen|Their intercourse was painful enough by letter.
austen|I think it would be much better if they would come in one afternoon next summer, and take their tea with ustake us in their afternoon walk; which they might do, as our hours are so reasonable, and yet get home without being out in the damp of the evening.
dickens|Ill let you go to the moon, Ill let you go to the stars.
dickens|I reply, that depends on the original wildness of the beast, and the amount of taming.
dickens|It was as if I had to make up my mind to leap from the top of a high house, or plunge into a great depth of water.
austen|There will be enough for every hope and every fear; and though my attachment to none can equal that of a parent, it suits my ideas of comfort better than what is warmer and blinder.
dickens|With an alphabet on the hearth at my feet for reference, I contrived in an hour or two to print and smear this epistle  MI DEER JO i OPE U R KRWITE WELL i OPE i SHAL SON B HABELL 4 2 TEEDGE U JO AN THEN WE SHORL B SO GLODD AN WEN i M PRENGTD 2 U JO WOT LARX AN BLEVE ME INF XN PIP.
dickens|What follows has another and I hope more disinterested purpose.
dickens|France, less favoured on the whole as to matters spiritual than her sister of the shield and trident, rolled with exceeding smoothness down hill, making paper money and spending it.
dickens|So I said Capitally.
austen|He scarcely ever spoke to her, and the assiduous attentions which he had been so sensible of himself were transferred for the rest of the day to Miss Lucas, whose civility in listening to him was a seasonable relief to them all, and especially to her friend.
dickens|And you, said I, are the pale young gentleman!
dickens|But, in the stillness of the third hour of the morning, Lucie came downstairs again, and stole into his room; not free from unshaped fears, beforehand.
austen|Do not you think her cure does Perry the highest credit?
austen|It must be the same party, you know, quite the same party, not one exception.
austen|She listened with much inward suffering, but with great outward patience, to Harriets detail.
dickens|I know, Joe, I know.
austen|When I am in company with him, I will not be wishing.
dickens|No!
dickens|They looked at one another, and their hearts died within them.
dickens|Like these in shape and size?
dickens|So, Arthur was a dying, and a dying poor and with the horrors on him, and Compeysons wife which Compeyson kicked mostly was a having pity on him when she could, and Compeyson was a having pity on nothing and nobody.
dickens|And when I say that I am going away within the hour, for I am soon going abroad, and that I shall never rest until I have worked for the money with which you have kept me out of prison, and have sent it to you, dont think, dear Joe and Biddy, that if I could repay it a thousand times over, I suppose I could cancel a farthing of the debt I owe you, or that I would do so if I could!
dickens|They even whisper that because he has slain Monseigneur, and because Monseigneur was the father of his tenantsserfswhat you willhe will be executed as a parricide.
austen|Come, and eat my strawberries.
dickens|No.
austen|And so was I.
austen|With a glance, she saw that he had lost none of his recent civility; and, to imitate his politeness, she began, as they met, to admire the beauty of the place; but she had not got beyond the words delightful, and charming, when some unlucky recollections obtruded, and she fancied that praise of Pemberley from her might be mischievously construed.
dickens|Yes, I do.
dickens|But, however that may be, resumed the nephew, glancing at him with deep distrust, I know that your diplomacy would stop me by any means, and would know no scruple as to means.
dickens|Wait for nothing but to have my place occupied, and then for England!
dickens|He had spoken his last words.
austen|Mr Woodhouse considered eight persons at dinner together as the utmost that his nerves could bearand here would be a ninthand Emma apprehended that it would be a ninth very much out of humour at not being able to come even to Hartfield for fortyeight hours without falling in with a dinnerparty.
austen|She felt your full meaning.
austen|The acknowledged lovers talked and laughed, the unacknowledged were silent.
dickens|No, no, my guardian assented; dont have too much to do with him.
dickens|Then you can go about your work, Mary Anne, said Wemmick to the little servant; which leaves us to ourselves, dont you see, Mr Pip?
austen|She played.
austen|said she, when the door was shut.
dickens|It was a very lame pretence on both sides; the lamer, because we both went into the coffeeroom, where he had just finished his breakfast, and where I ordered mine.
austen|Do not beat me.
austen|She was all pleasure and gratitude, both for Harriet and herself, and longed to be thanking him; and though too distant for speech, her countenance said much, as soon as she could catch his eye again.
dickens|His difficulty at the guardhouse in this small place had been such, that he felt his journey to have come to a crisis.
austen|Your character was unfolded in the recital which I received many months ago from Mr Wickham.
dickens|There was yet an upper staircase, of a steeper inclination and of contracted dimensions, to be ascended, before the garret story was reached.
austen|He listened in perfect silence.
dickens|Instead of that, said I, plucking up more grass and chewing a blade or two, see how I am going on.
dickens|But here I anticipate a little, for I was not a Finch, and could not be, according to the sacred laws of the society, until I came of age.
dickens|Next thing to it, returned Wemmick, I am going to Newgate.
austen|His plan did not vary on seeing them.
austen|Will you be so kind, said she, when I am missed, as to say that I am gone home?
austen|My feelings are not puffed about with every attempt to move them.
dickens|What is it?
austen|Under such circumstances, however, he was not likely to be proof against the temptation of immediate relief.
austen|But how did he account for it?
austen|Did she call to refuse her consent?
dickens|Foremost among the twoandthirty was he; seated, that he might get breath enough to keep life in him.
dickens|However, let me try.
dickens|Dont go and tell me that you buried Cly.
austen|and she coloured at the idea; but, recovering herself, said in a lively tone, And pray, what is the usual price of an earls younger son?
dickens|They made themselves my friends, said I, when they supposed me to have superseded them; and when Sarah Pocket, Miss Georgiana, and Mistress Camilla were not my friends, I think.
austen|Upon my word!
dickens|Over and over again.
dickens|said I.
austen|No more is Emma.
dickens|For a reason that I had, I felt as if my eyes would start out of my head.
austen|Perhaps by and by I may observe that private balls are much pleasanter than public ones.
dickens|said Herbert.
dickens|Can you stand?
dickens|Beastly place, said Drummle.
dickens|Daylight never entered the house as to my thoughts and remembrances of it, any more than as to the actual fact.
dickens|I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long years to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out.
dickens|I heard it, as I have in my time heard other curious things in the same place.
austen|When I last saw her, she was not very promising.
austen|He seemed to want to be acquainted with her.
dickens|He had a womans delicacy of feature, and wasas you may see, though you never saw her, said Herbert to meexactly like his mother.
austen|The scene enlarged; two persons appeared; Mrs Weston and her soninlaw; they were walking into Highbury;to Hartfield of course.
dickens|He never did anything else in connection with Lloyds that I could find out, except come back again.
dickens|In the first fright and horror of her situation, Miss Pross passed the body as far from it as she could, and ran down the stairs to call for fruitless help.
austen|She was gone directly.
dickens|You look very much worried, and it would do you good to have a perfectly quiet day with the Aged,hell be up presently,and a little bit ofyou remember the pig?
austen|Nopray let her have time to look about her.
dickens|But even if not, even if I knew certainly not, show me the neck of an aristocrat and tyrant, and still I would  Then madame, with her teeth set, tied a very terrible knot indeed.
dickens|In addition to the dread that, having led up to so much mischief, it would be now more likely than ever to alienate Joe from me if he believed it, I had a further restraining dread that he would not believe it, but would assort it with the fabulous dogs and vealcutlets as a monstrous invention.
austen|I know very well, madam, said he, that when persons sit down to a cardtable, they must take their chances of these things, and happily I am not in such circumstances as to make five shillings any object.
dickens|Dont be cheeky, Jack, remonstrated the landlord, in a melancholy and pathetic way.
austen|Ten couple, in either of the Randalls rooms, would have been insufferable!
dickens|Mr Jaggerss own highbacked chair was of deadly black horsehair, with rows of brass nails round it, like a coffin; and I fancied I could see how he leaned back in it, and bit his forefinger at the clients.
dickens|As they were coming on at full speed, we got the two bags ready, and took that opportunity of saying goodbye to Herbert and Startop.
dickens|My English brother Solomon, mourned Miss Pross, casting up her tearfraught eyes, that had the makings in him of one of the best and greatest of men in his native country, an official among foreigners, and such foreigners!
austen|I must not dwell upon it, said she.
dickens|But beginning to perceive that the handcuffs were not for me, and that the military had so far got the better of the pie as to put it in the background, I collected a little more of my scattered wits.
austen|Dont class us together, Harriet.
austen|He reurgedshe redeclined; and he seemed then about to make his bow, when taking the paper from the table, she returned it  Oh!
dickens|From this slight occasion sprang two meetings that I have now to tell of.
austen|What Wickham had said of the living was fresh in her memory, and as she recalled his very words, it was impossible not to feel that there was gross duplicity on one side or the other; and, for a few moments, she flattered herself that her wishes did not err.
austen|Oh!
austen|Her father fondly replied, Ah!
dickens|Wemmick tightened his postoffice and shook his head, as if his opinion were dead against any fatal weakness of that sort.
austen|I am sure it was a source of high entertainment to you, to feel that you were taking us all in.
austen|Very well.
dickens|Let me go to the door.
austen|Steady to his purpose, he scarcely spoke ten words to her through the whole of Saturday, and though they were at one time left by themselves for halfanhour, he adhered most conscientiously to his book, and would not even look at her.
dickens|Ay.
austen|But surely, said she, I may enter his county with impunity, and rob it of a few petrified spars without his perceiving me.
austen|Her eldest daughter endeavoured to give some relief to the violence of these transports, by leading her thoughts to the obligations which Mr Gardiners behaviour laid them all under.
austen|Mr Knightley was a sort of general friend and adviser, and she knew Mr Elton looked up to him.
dickens|Miss Prosss brother, sir, said Sydney.
dickens|What are you telling of, Pip?
dickens|I am thankful!
dickens|Four dogs, said I.
austen|He turned to Mrs Weston to implore her assistance, Would not she give him her support?
dickens|Both Mr and Mrs Pocket had such a noticeable air of being in somebody elses hands, that I wondered who really was in possession of the house and let them live there, until I found this unknown power to be the servants.
dickens|It was too much for Mrs Joe, who immediately rose.
austen|It was a handsome modern building, well situated on rising ground.
dickens|If you want information regarding your uncle Provis, you had much better come and tell no one, and lose no time.
austen|Butgood Lord!
dickens|England is very attractive to you, seeing how indifferently you have prospered there, he observed then, turning his calm face to his nephew with a smile.
dickens|Brief as such companionship was in every separate instance, Mr Cruncher never failed to become so interested in the lady as to express a strong desire to have the honour of drinking her very good health.
austen|Well, I was so frightened I did not know what to do, for my uncle was to give me away; and if we were beyond the hour, we could not be married all day.
dickens|And after each figure was disposed of, it was as much as I could do to get a bite or a sup, before the next came; while he sat at his ease guessing nothing, and eating bacon and hot roll, in if I may be allowed the expression a gorging and gormandizing manner.
dickens|At Startops suggestion, we put ourselves down for election into a club called The Finches of the Grove the object of which institution I have never divined, if it were not that the members should dine expensively once a fortnight, to quarrel among themselves as much as possible after dinner, and to cause six waiters to get drunk on the stairs.
austen|They are all remarkably clever; and they have so many pretty ways.
dickens|Miss Havisham interrupted.
dickens|It was understood that you wanted nothing for yourself, remember?
dickens|He was so unlike what he had ever shown himself to be, and it was so sad to think how much he had thrown away, and how much he every day kept down and perverted, that Lucie Manette wept mournfully for him as he stood looking back at her.
austen|I would not have Mr Knightley know any thing about it for the world!
dickens|She will have in me a man already pretty well off, and a rapidly rising man, and a man of some distinction it is a piece of good fortune for her, but she is worthy of good fortune.
austen|It made him so very unhappy, indeed, that it could not be persevered in.
austen|She had been watching him the last hour, she said, as he walked up and down the street, and had Mr Wickham appeared, Kitty and Lydia would certainly have continued the occupation, but unluckily no one passed windows now except a few of the officers, who, in comparison with the stranger, were become stupid, disagreeable fellows.
austen|Do as you please.
dickens|But when he did find spoken words for it, they came to him coherently, though slowly.
dickens|It may have its effect on others, and may be meant to have.
austen|After walking several miles in a leisurely manner, and too busy to know anything about it, they found at last, on examining their watches, that it was time to be at home.
dickens|Am I to kiss you now?
dickens|Shehave you seen her, Doctor?
austen|As for the gentleman himself, his feelings were chiefly expressed, not by embarrassment or dejection, or by trying to avoid her, but by stiffness of manner and resentful silence.
austen|Emma guessed him to be the drudge of some attorney, and too stupid to rise.
austen|They were all astonished; and Mr Bennet, who could by no means wish for so speedy a return, immediately said  But is there not danger of Lady Catherines disapprobation here, my good sir?
austen|It would do neither of them good, it would do the subject no good, to be talking of it farther.
dickens|The two stand in the fastthinning throng of victims, but they speak as if they were alone.
austen|To be sure.
dickens|It is she, observed her husband.
dickens|What I suppose, Mr Stryver, I claim to characterise for myselfAnd understand me, sir, said Mr Lorry, quickly flushing again, I will notnot even at Tellsonshave it characterised for me by any gentleman breathing.
austen|But however, she is so far from well, that her kind friends the Campbells think she had better come home, and try an air that always agrees with her; and they have no doubt that three or four months at Highbury will entirely cure herand it is certainly a great deal better that she should come here, than go to Ireland, if she is unwell.
austen|You may believe me, Mrs Weston.
dickens|Well, well!
dickens|I saw by his tilting of the bottle that there was no great quantity left in it.
dickens|We may go.
dickens|Are you a subject for the mad hospital?
austen|No longer walking in at all hours, as if ever willing to change his own home for theirs!
dickens|I dare say I should have felt a pain in my liver, too, if I had known where it was.
dickens|said I.
austen|But you do not know all.
dickens|Nothing unbecoming tinged the pride; it was a natural and worthy one; but he observed it as a curiosity.
dickens|Of little worth as life is when we misuse it, it is worth that effort.
dickens|said he.
dickens|The blood horses of them colonists might fling up the dust over me as I was walking; what do I say?
dickens|They had said little, though they had been there a long time.
dickens|Madame Defarge looked at her scornfully, but still with something of Miss Prosss own perception that they two were at bay.
dickens|and the President rang his bell to quiet them.
austen|He did.
austen|This is just what I wanted to be assured of.
dickens|Ill tell you, said she, in the same hurried passionate whisper, what real love is.
dickens|Remember?
austen|Make haste, make haste.
dickens|How do you come here?
austen|I do not believe Mrs Long will do any such thing.
austen|Perhaps it would have been better, replied her sister.
dickens|He grasped them heartily, raised them to his lips, kissed them, and still held them.
austen|I am thwarted in every thing material.
dickens|The prisoner wrung his hand.
dickens|They were so much occupied, however, in discussing the marvels I had already presented for their consideration, that I escaped.
dickens|Mother by adoption, retorted Estella, never departing from the easy grace of her attitude, never raising her voice as the other did, never yielding either to anger or tenderness,mother by adoption, I have said that I owe everything to you.
dickens|Thats it, said Joe.
dickens|I play my Ace, Denunciation of Mr Barsad to the nearest Section Committee.
dickens|croaked the Juryman.
dickens|Now that this was changed, and he knew himself to be invested through that old trial with forces to which they both looked for Charless ultimate safety and deliverance, he became so far exalted by the change, that he took the lead and direction, and required them as the weak, to trust to him as the strong.
austen|Mr Darcy sends you all the love in the world that he can spare from me.
dickens|When the tragedy was over, and he had been called for and hooted, I said to Herbert, Let us go at once, or perhaps we shall meet him.
dickens|Mr Drummle, I drink to you.
austen|Who can this be?
austen|The thing is determined, that is laughing affectedly as far as I can presume to determine any thing without the concurrence of my lord and master.
dickens|After that day, a day rarely passed without her drawing the hammer on her slate, and without Orlicks slouching in and standing doggedly before her, as if he knew no more than I did what to make of it.
dickens|But he punished the Amens tremendously; and when he gave out the psalm,always giving the whole verse,he looked all round the congregation first, as much as to say, You have heard my friend overhead; oblige me with your opinion of this style!
dickens|How could my character fail to be influenced by them?
austen|Yes.
austen|NoI do not know that you were wrong in saying what you did.
dickens|In short, whatever I knew, Biddy knew.
austen|Latterly, howeverfor some time, indeedI have had no idea of their meaning any thing.
austen|I dare say they are, sir.
dickens|Suspected and Denounced enemy of the Republic, Aristocrat, one of a family of tyrants, one of a race proscribed, for that they had used their abolished privileges to the infamous oppression of the people.
dickens|You knit with great skill, madame.
austen|Mrs Churchill was unwellfar too unwell to do without him; she had been in a very suffering state so said her husband when writing to her nephew two days before, though from her usual unwillingness to give pain, and constant habit of never thinking of herself, she had not mentioned it; but now she was too ill to trifle, and must entreat him to set off for Enscombe without delay.
austen|They had nothing to accuse him of but pride; pride he probably had, and if not, it would certainly be imputed by the inhabitants of a small markettown where the family did not visit.
dickens|Dn it all, sir!
austen|I was late; I met her walking home by herself, and wanted to walk with her, but she would not suffer it.
dickens|Come again after six days.
austen|with a little sigh of sentiment.
austen|It was not known that Wickham had a single relationship with whom he kept up any connection, and it was certain that he had no near one living.
dickens|He dont get no iron rust here!
dickens|He gave me one other nod, compressed the postoffice exceedingly, gave me one last nod, and went on with his breakfast.
dickens|How much is fortythree pence?
dickens|I am expected, I believe?
austen|They are gone off together from Brighton.
dickens|All was quiet, and assuredly no other man was in those chambers.
austen|How could he contrive to come?
dickens|But, Estella, do hear me speak.
austen|You are expecting her again, you say, this morning?
dickens|Jerry took the letter, and, remarking to himself with less internal deference than he made an outward show of, You are a lean old one, too, made his bow, informed his son, in passing, of his destination, and went his way.
dickens|Surely, not so the ringing of the great bell of the chateau, nor the running up and down the stairs; nor the hurried figures on the terrace; nor the booting and tramping here and there and everywhere, nor the quick saddling of horses and riding away?
austen|If you remember any queernesses, set them all to the right account.
dickens|A place of business in London like Tellsons place of business in Paris, would soon have driven the House out of its mind and into the Gazette.
austen|actually resolve to break with him entirely!
austen|Yes, honourable, I think, to chuse so well and so gratefully.
austen|Many staredmany smiled; but no one looked more amused than Mr Bennet himself, while his wife seriously commended Mr Collins for having spoken so sensibly, and observed in a halfwhisper to Lady Lucas, that he was a remarkably clever, good kind of young man.
dickens|It would be an impertinence elsewhere, but it is not so here, to ask your name and condition?
dickens|They are here.
austen|And gravely glancing at Mr Darcy, There is a fine old saying, which everybody here is of course familiar with Keep your breath to cool your porridge; and I shall keep mine to swell my song.
dickens|There has been a violent stress in one direction, and it needs a counterweight.
dickens|But the frightened valet had got down in a hurry, and there were twenty hands at the horses bridles.
dickens|As soon as I could recover myself sufficiently, I hurried out after him and looked for him in the neighboring streets; but he was gone.
austen|I only doubt whether he will ever take us anywhere else.
dickens|Good afternoon, Colonel.
dickens|You did come home, then?
dickens|There you quite mistake him, said I.
dickens|Yes, sir.
dickens|Mr Wopsle had greatly alarmed me more than once, by his blowing and hard breathing; but I knew the sounds by this time, and could dissociate them from the object of pursuit.
austen|I shall go abroad for a couple of yearsand when I return, I shall come to you for my wife.
austen|There were not merely no grammatical errors, but as a composition it would not have disgraced a gentleman; the language, though plain, was strong and unaffected, and the sentiments it conveyed very much to the credit of the writer.
dickens|These twelve years, more likely, said Wemmick.
austen|Oh!
austen|He was afraid not even Miss Woodhousehe stopt a momentor Miss Smith could inspire him.
austen|Do not let us be too solemn on the business.
dickens|And then he catched hold of us, and kep on a talking to her, and answering of her, till I half believed I see her myself.
dickens|What did you say?
dickens|A bad truth for you, said Defarge, speaking with knitted brows, and looking straight before him.
dickens|You might, from your appearance, be the wife of Lucifer, said Miss Pross, in her breathing.
dickens|Eh well!
dickens|She raised her eyes to my face, on being thus addressed, and her fingers plied their work, and she looked at me with an unmoved countenance.
austen|their luxury and ease.
dickens|We had that man before us at the Old Bailey.
dickens|What the unknown prisoner had written will never be read, but he had written something, and hidden it away to keep it from the gaoler.
austen|And she talked in this way so long and successfully that, when forced to give her attention again to her father and sister, she had nothing worse to hear than Isabellas kind inquiry after Jane Fairfax; and Jane Fairfax, though no great favourite with her in general, she was at that moment very happy to assist in praising.
austen|Emma, you are a great dreamer, I think?
dickens|Only twice more did the housekeeper reappear, and then her stay in the room was very short, and Mr Jaggers was sharp with her.
dickens|What, said Mr Cruncher, varying his apostrophe after missing his markwhat are you up to, Aggerawayter?
austen|I should be sorry to be more.
austen|He has a wife and family to maintain, and is not to be giving away his time.
dickens|The sky was blue, the larks were soaring high over the green corn, I thought all that countryside more beautiful and peaceful by far than I had ever known it to be yet.
dickens|Flashing weapons, blazing torches, smoking waggonloads of wet straw, hard work at neighbouring barricades in all directions, shrieks, volleys, execrations, bravery without stint, boom smash and rattle, and the furious sounding of the living sea; but, still the deep ditch, and the single drawbridge, and the massive stone walls, and the eight great towers, and still Defarge of the wineshop at his gun, grown doubly hot by the service of Four fierce hours.
dickens|She needed both advantages, for the marks of gripping fingers were deep in her face, and her hair was torn, and her dress hastily composed with unsteady hands was clutched and dragged a hundred ways.
dickens|Joe put his mouth into the forms of returning such a highly elaborate answer, that I could make out nothing of it but the single word Pip.
austen|He had been sitting with her, it appeared, most companionably at home, till her usual hour of exercise; and on being desired to chuse their walk, immediately fixed on Highbury.
austen|Can I have the carriage?
dickens|Amidst a wondering silence, we three walked out of the Jolly Bargemen, and in a wondering silence walked home.
dickens|Its abiding place was in all things fitted to it.
austen|Indeed I do you justice, my good friend.
austen|The affection of the whole family, the warm attachment of Miss Campbell in particular, was the more honourable to each party from the circumstance of Janes decided superiority both in beauty and acquirements.
dickens|Thus, Tellsons, in its day, like greater places of business, its contemporaries, had taken so many lives, that, if the heads laid low before it had been ranged on Temple Bar instead of being privately disposed of, they would probably have excluded what little light the ground floor had, in a rather significant manner.
austen|Quite the queen of the evening!
dickens|That has a bad look, said Darnay  A bad look, you say, my dear Darnay?
austen|Mr Bennet was so odd a mixture of quick parts, sarcastic humour, reserve, and caprice, that the experience of threeandtwenty years had been insufficient to make his wife understand his character.
austen|Indeed I am very sorry.
austen|Brotherinlaw of Wickham!
dickens|For, I had a strange and strong misgiving that I had been lying there a long timea day and a night,two days and nights,more.
austen|Mrs Bennet could hardly contain herself.
dickens|Thus, Bentley Drummle had come to Mr Pocket when he was a head taller than that gentleman, and half a dozen heads thicker than most gentlemen.
dickens|I thank you, Darnay.
dickens|It struck cold and damp, but was not dark.
austen|Miss Bingley saw, or suspected enough to be jealous; and her great anxiety for the recovery of her dear friend Jane received some assistance from her desire of getting rid of Elizabeth.
austen|They insist also on my seeing Mr Jonestherefore do not be alarmed if you should hear of his having been to meand, excepting a sore throat and headache, there is not much the matter with me.
dickens|I was startled, and asked, Is it a pressing case?
dickens|It is so difficult to become clearly possessed of the contents of almost any letter, in a violent hurry, that I had to read this mysterious epistle again twice, before its injunction to me to be secret got mechanically into my mind.
dickens|The name of the strong man of Old Scripture had descended to the chief functionary who worked it; but, so armed, he was stronger than his namesake, and blinder, and tore away the gates of Gods own Temple every day.
austen|Four sides of paper were insufficient to contain all her delight, and all her earnest desire of being loved by her sister.
dickens|He threw me into the greatest confusion by laughing heartily and replying in a very sprightly manner, No, to be sure; youre right.
dickens|These three young gentlemen, Mr Stryver, exuding patronage of the most offensive quality from every pore, had walked before him like three sheep to the quiet corner in Soho, and had offered as pupils to Lucies husband delicately saying Halloa!
dickens|said Estella, with a slight wave of her hand, signifying in the fighting times.
austen|Here is my sketch of the fourth, who was a baby.
dickens|It lay on that side of him which was not the side on which she stood.
dickens|That was well done.
dickens|But, when we sat by her flickering fire at night, she was most weird; for then, keeping Estellas hand drawn through her arm and clutched in her own hand, she extorted from her, by dint of referring back to what Estella had told her in her regular letters, the names and conditions of the men whom she had fascinated; and as Miss Havisham dwelt upon this roll, with the intensity of a mind mortally hurt and diseased, she sat with her other hand on her crutch stick, and her chin on that, and her wan bright eyes glaring at me, a very spectre.
dickens|Look at that paper you hold in your hand.
dickens|By the wilderness of casks that I had walked on long ago, and on which the rain of years had fallen since, rotting them in many places, and leaving miniature swamps and pools of water upon those that stood on end, I made my way to the ruined garden.
dickens|Hold your noise!
austen|Mr Elton was all obligation and cheerfulness; he was so very cheerful in his civilities indeed, that she began to think he must have received a different account of Harriet from what had reached her.
dickens|Ahhh!
dickens|I little thought, said Estella, that I should take leave of you in taking leave of this spot.
dickens|Whom have we within?
dickens|I waited about until it was noon, and I went upon Change, and I saw fluey men sitting there under the bills about shipping, whom I took to be great merchants, though I couldnt understand why they should all be out of spirits.
austen|Lively as he was, it seemed a liveliness that did not satisfy himself; but what decided her belief on the subject, was his staying only a quarter of an hour, and hurrying away to make other calls in Highbury.
dickens|Spoke good French.
dickens|And yet his misgivings were not so dark as, imagined by the light of this later time, they would appear.
dickens|Indeed?
dickens|says he, Camilla, what can it signify so long as the poor bereaved little things are in black?
austen|She had engaged to go as governess to Mrs Smallridges childrena dear friend of Mrs Eltonsa neighbour of Maple Grove; and, by the bye, I wonder how Mrs Elton bears the disappointment?
austen|The carriage was sent for them now.
dickens|The officer who steered the galley gave the same account of their going overboard.
dickens|As I crossed by the fountain, I saw his lighted back windows looking bright and quiet, and, when I stood for a few moments in the doorway of the building where I lived, before going up the stairs, Garden Court was as still and lifeless as the staircase was when I ascended it.
dickens|You was favored, and he was bullied and beat.
dickens|Because Pumblechook done everything for him.
dickens|Gabelle.
austen|I can hardly believe it.
dickens|I mock you.
austen|They would hardly come in their chaise, I think, at that season of the year.
austen|It was before teastayno, it could not be before tea, because we were just going to cardsand yet it was before tea, because I remember thinkingOh!
austen|I met her frequently at Weymouth.
austen|Elizabeth saw what he was doing, and at the first convenient pause, turned to him with an arch smile, and said  You mean to frighten me, Mr Darcy, by coming in all this state to hear me?
dickens|Any one carried home by the people today, may be condemned tomorrow.
austen|I do not consider myself at all a fortunate person.
dickens|Why are you looking at that dark tree in the lane?
dickens|you know; who giveth?
austen|Mrs Weston was most comfortably pleased on the occasion.
dickens|Most marshes is solitary, said Joe.
dickens|To think that there might have been a Mrs Lorry, any time these fifty years almost!
dickens|My dear Manette, it is the case of an old and a prolonged shock, of great acuteness and severity to the affections, the feelings, thetheas you express itthe mind.
austen|Lady Catherine observed, after dinner, that Miss Bennet seemed out of spirits, and immediately accounting for it by herself, by supposing that she did not like to go home again so soon, she added  But if that is the case, you must write to your mother and beg that you may stay a little longer.
austen|Their eyes were immediately wandering up in the street in quest of the officers, and nothing less than a very smart bonnet indeed, or a really new muslin in a shop window, could recall them.
austen|Well, said Emma, there is no disputing about taste.
dickens|I beg your pardon!
dickens|You did.
dickens|Villain Foulon taken, my sister!
austen|Elizabeth allowed that he had given a very rational account of it, and they continued talking together, with mutual satisfaction till supper put an end to cards, and gave the rest of the ladies their share of Mr Wickhams attentions.
dickens|The great door clanged behind him, and Monsieur the Marquis crossed a hall grim with certain old boarspears, swords, and knives of the chase; grimmer with certain heavy ridingrods and ridingwhips, of which many a peasant, gone to his benefactor Death, had felt the weight when his lord was angry.
dickens|Hold of it was lost in the raging fever of a nation, as it is in the fever of one patient.
austen|I have, sir.
dickens|Courage, my dear Lucie, said Mr Lorry, as he raised her.
austen|it was at first a considerable shock to him, and he tried earnestly to dissuade her from it.
dickens|It was done when you were more than ten years old; you might have seen it.
dickens|Much of my unassisted self, and more by the help of Biddy than of Mr Wopsles greataunt, I struggled through the alphabet as if it had been a bramblebush; getting considerably worried and scratched by every letter.
austen|Well, if they can be easy with an estate that is not lawfully their own, so much the better.
austen|a man does not imagine any such thing.
austen|And there was time enough for Emma to form a reasonable judgment, as their visit included all the rest of the morning.
austen|The party did not break up without Emmas being positively secured for the two first dances by the hero of the evening, nor without her overhearing Mr Weston whisper to his wife, He has asked her, my dear.
austen|And on the gentlemens approaching, one of the girls moved closer to her than ever, and said, in a whisper  The men shant come and part us, I am determined.
dickens|Being far too ill to remain in the common prison, he was removed, after the first day or so, into the infirmary.
dickens|I repeat this conversation exactly as it occurred.
austen|The delightful assurance of her total indifference towards Frank Churchill, of her having a heart completely disengaged from him, had given birth to the hope, that, in time, he might gain her affection himself;but it had been no present hopehe had only, in the momentary conquest of eagerness over judgment, aspired to be told that she did not forbid his attempt to attach her.
austen|She had soon afterwards reason to believe that the beginning was already made, and could not but hope that the gipsy, though she had told no fortune, might be proved to have made Harriets.
dickens|What do you think of her?
dickens|At first, I had to shut some gates after me, and now and then to stand still while the cattle that were lying in the bankedup pathway arose and blundered down among the grass and reeds.
dickens|I dont expect it to do me any good.
austen|Had you not been surrounded by other friends, I might have been tempted to introduce a subject, to ask questions, to speak more openly than might have been strictly correct.
dickens|She made signs to me that she wanted him to sit down close to her, and wanted me to put her arms round his neck.
dickens|I had then barely time to get my greatcoat, lock up the chambers, and make for the coachoffice by the short byways.
austen|He might even have Harriet in his thoughts at the moment; who could say?
austen|It was not in his calmness that she read his comparative difference.
dickens|It was of no use asking myself this question now.
dickens|I began explaining to her that secret history of the partnership.
dickens|You know, Pip, said Joe, solemnly, with his last bite in his cheek, and speaking in a confidential voice, as if we two were quite alone, you and me is always friends, and Id be the last to tell upon you, any time.
austen|His temptation is not adequate to the risk!
dickens|English.
dickens|Either the mist was not out again yet, or the wind had dispelled it.
austen|The family were assembled in the breakfast room to receive them.
austen|He stopped.
dickens|I wish you would tell me her story.
austen|What do you think of this sentence, my dear Lizzy?
austen|You have cured her of her schoolgirls giggle; she really does you credit.
austen|My mind was more agreeably engaged.
dickens|Mean to say he knowed nothing of you?
austen|She is not the superior young woman which Emmas friend ought to be.
dickens|I dont suppose anything about it but what Ladybird tells me.
dickens|It is not much to give to the theme that so long filled my heart.
austen|Elizabeth made no answer, and took her place in the set, amazed at the dignity to which she was arrived in being allowed to stand opposite to Mr Darcy, and reading in her neighbours looks, their equal amazement in beholding it.
austen|I was in great hopes that one of you would have got a husband before you came back.
austen|The woman was better off; she might have the assistance of fine clothes, and the privilege of bashfulness, but the man had only his own good sense to depend on; and when she considered how peculiarly unlucky poor Mr Elton was in being in the same room at once with the woman he had just married, the woman he had wanted to marry, and the woman whom he had been expected to marry, she must allow him to have the right to look as little wise, and to be as much affectedly, and as little really easy as could be.
dickens|But perhaps you can never believe, now, that there is anything human in my heart?
dickens|When we were in a side alley, he turned and asked, How did you think he looked?
dickens|Our not remote ancestors held the right of life and death over the surrounding vulgar.
dickens|said I, looking at Joe.
dickens|he repeated, pausing.
dickens|She threw the cards down on the table when she had won them all, as if she despised them for having been won of me.
dickens|He had sunk in her arms, and his face dropped on her breast a sight so touching, yet so terrible in the tremendous wrong and suffering which had gone before it, that the two beholders covered their faces.
austen|What has he to do with books?
austen|so sillyso satisfiedso smilingso prosingso undistinguishing and unfastidiousand so apt to tell every thing relative to every body about me, I would marry tomorrow.
austen|On such encouragement to ask, Elizabeth was forced to put it out of her power, by running away.
dickens|I noticed that Mr Pumblechook in his hospitality appeared to forget that he had made a present of the wine, but took the bottle from Mrs Joe and had all the credit of handing it about in a gush of joviality.
dickens|He has won the pool.
austen|You know my sentiments.
dickens|Say tea then, said Herbert, pouring it out.
dickens|I wished Joe had been rather more genteelly brought up, and then I should have been so too.
dickens|Well!
austen|Is this to be endured!
dickens|I am going to try to get the place of mistress in the new school nearly finished here.
dickens|Biddy, I cried, getting up, putting my arm round her neck, and giving her a kiss, I shall always tell you everything.
austen|On Miss Lucass persevering, however, she added, Very well, if it must be so, it must.
dickens|It may be only small injustice that the child can be exposed to; but the child is small, and its world is small, and its rockinghorse stands as many hands high, according to scale, as a bigboned Irish hunter.
dickens|No.
dickens|Good night!
austen|She was not a woman of strong understanding or any quickness; and with this resemblance of her father, she inherited also much of his constitution; was delicate in her own health, overcareful of that of her children, had many fears and many nerves, and was as fond of her own Mr Wingfield in town as her father could be of Mr Perry.
austen|Is she handsome?
dickens|The sergeant ran in first, when we had run the noise quite down, and two of his men ran in close upon him.
austen|He loved to have the cloth laid, because it had been the fashion of his youth, but his conviction of suppers being very unwholesome made him rather sorry to see any thing put on it; and while his hospitality would have welcomed his visitors to every thing, his care for their health made him grieve that they would eat.
dickens|I asked, after again considering the subject.
dickens|So commences the new philosophy!
dickens|And now that the cloud settled on Saint Antoine, which a momentary gleam had driven from his sacred countenance, the darkness of it was heavycold, dirt, sickness, ignorance, and want, were the lords in waiting on the saintly presencenobles of great power all of them; but, most especially the last.
austen|This was all very promising; and, but for such an unfortunate fancy for having his hair cut, there was nothing to denote him unworthy of the distinguished honour which her imagination had given him; the honour, if not of being really in love with her, of being at least very near it, and saved only by her own indifferencefor still her resolution held of never marryingthe honour, in short, of being marked out for her by all their joint acquaintance.
austen|Conceal the unhappy truth as long as it is possible, I know it cannot be long.
dickens|In a most irritating manner he instantly slapped his hands against one another, daintily flung one of his legs up behind him, pulled my hair, slapped his hands again, dipped his head, and butted it into my stomach.
austen|Some are gone to the ponds, and some to the lime walk.
dickens|Do you know the young man?
austen|She could not bear to see him suffering, to know him fancying himself neglected; and though her understanding almost acquiesced in the assurance of both the Mr Knightleys, that when once the event were over, his distress would be soon over too, she hesitatedshe could not proceed.
austen|My aunt Phillips came to Longbourn on Tuesday, after my father went away; and was so good as to stay till Thursday with me.
austen|He began to think it was to be, and that he could not prevent ita very promising step of the mind on its way to resignation.
austen|Having understood as much, I was rather astonished to find her so very ladylike!
dickens|Though it is to a prisoner in the Abbaye.
dickens|Thats my mother.
dickens|from Defarge.
austen|Might not they use both rooms, and dance across the passage?
dickens|May I?
austen|The agitation and tears which the subject occasioned, brought on a headache; and it grew so much worse towards the evening, that, added to her unwillingness to see Mr Darcy, it determined her not to attend her cousins to Rosings, where they were engaged to drink tea.
dickens|The man says?
dickens|Mr Cartons manner was so careless as to be almost insolent.
dickens|As he said the words he looked down, with an admiring pity, on the flowing golden hair; as if he pictured to himself that it might have been already tinged with grey.
dickens|There is no earthly doubt that he is retaken.
dickens|Are you amused, Mr Drummle?
austen|As for Elizabeth, her thoughts were at Pemberley this evening more than the last; and the evening, though as it passed it seemed long, was not long enough to determine her feelings towards one in that mansion; and she lay awake two whole hours endeavouring to make them out.
dickens|That is not my name.
dickens|The wigged gentleman sitting opposite, still looking at the ceiling of the court.
dickens|The hearts of the passengers beat loud enough perhaps to be heard; but at any rate, the quiet pause was audibly expressive of people out of breath, and holding the breath, and having the pulses quickened by expectation.
dickens|As he walked to and fro with his resolution made, he considered that neither Lucie nor her father must know of it until he was gone.
austen|And as I looked at her, though I never saw her appear to more advantage, it struck me that she was heated, and would therefore be particularly liable to take cold.
dickens|As I turned my eyes to the elder brother, I saw him looking down at this handsome boy whose life was ebbing out, as if he were a wounded bird, or hare, or rabbit; not at all as if he were a fellowcreature.
dickens|I had not looked for him.
dickens|But, at last I began, in a purblind groping way, to read, write, and cipher, on the very smallest scale.
dickens|Not a bit of it, returned Wemmick, growing bolder and bolder.
dickens|he went on, handing me the bread and butter.
austen|She followed another carriage to Mr Coles door; and was pleased to see that it was Mr Knightleys; for Mr Knightley keeping no horses, having little spare money and a great deal of health, activity, and independence, was too apt, in Emmas opinion, to get about as he could, and not use his carriage so often as became the owner of Donwell Abbey.
austen|Emma could not resist.
austen|I will only say farther that from what passed that evening, my opinion of all parties was confirmed, and every inducement heightened which could have led me before, to preserve my friend from what I esteemed a most unhappy connection.
dickens|This, said Mr Pumblechook, is Pip.
dickens|After a hard contest with that eccentric action of thought which had last perplexed him, he had got the better of it.
austen|It only shows her being deficient in something herselfsense or feeling.
dickens|Little more than a single syllable could have been spoken on either side.
austen|She saw that he wanted to engage her on the old subject of his grievances, and she was in no humour to indulge him.
austen|She talked on, therefore, without interruption from any of them, till they were joined by Mr Collins, who entered the room with an air more stately than usual, and on perceiving whom, she said to the girls, Now, I do insist upon it, that you, all of you, hold your tongues, and let me and Mr Collins have a little conversation together.
austen|But then, to be an old maid at last, like Miss Bates!
dickens|She gave me her hand.
dickens|He entreated her, for her fathers sake, never to seek to know whether her father had become oblivious of the existence of the paper, or had had it recalled to him for the moment, or for good, by the story of the Tower, on that old Sunday under the dear old planetree in the garden.
dickens|Then, Drummle glanced at me, with an insolent triumph on his greatjowled face that cut me to the heart, dull as he was, and so exasperated me, that I felt inclined to take him in my arms as the robber in the storybook is said to have taken the old lady and seat him on the fire.
austen|The country, said Darcy, can in general supply but a few subjects for such a study.
austen|I should have expected better judgment in Colonel Campbell.
austen|Well, smiling, I hope it may be allowed that if compassion has produced exertion and relief to the sufferers, it has done all that is truly important.
dickens|Now that he had no work to hold, he laid the knuckles of the right hand in the hollow of the left, and then the knuckles of the left hand in the hollow of the right, and then passed a hand across his bearded chin, and so on in regular changes, without a moments intermission.
dickens|Always.
austen|good I am sure.
austen|Mrs Weston and Emma tried earnestly to cheer him and turn his attention from his soninlaw, who was pursuing his triumph rather unfeelingly.
dickens|Is, I assure you, said the spy; though its not important.
austen|Lady Catherine de Bourghs attention to his wishes, and consideration for his comfort, appeared very remarkable.
austen|It is Frank and Miss Fairfax, said Mrs Weston.
austen|Poor fellow!
dickens|But, no, gentlemen, said Stryver, looking all round, and snapping his fingers, I know something of human nature, and I tell you that youll never find a fellow like this fellow, trusting himself to the mercies of such precious protgs.
dickens|And I have no doubt, said Mr Lorry, that I was right in the conversation we had.
austen|Harriet was a little distresseddid look a little foolish at first but having once owned that she had been presumptuous and silly, and selfdeceived, before, her pain and confusion seemed to die away with the words, and leave her without a care for the past, and with the fullest exultation in the present and future; for, as to her friends approbation, Emma had instantly removed every fear of that nature, by meeting her with the most unqualified congratulations.
austen|It is evident that you belong to the first circles.
austen|He then handed her in, Maria followed, and the door was on the point of being closed, when he suddenly reminded them, with some consternation, that they had hitherto forgotten to leave any message for the ladies at Rosings.
dickens|But you have something more to say?
austen|And now do, when you get to town, find them out, wherever they may be; and if they are not married already, make them marry.
austen|But, on the other hand, she could not admit herself to be unhappy, nor, after the first morning, to be less disposed for employment than usual; she was still busy and cheerful; and, pleasing as he was, she could yet imagine him to have faults; and farther, though thinking of him so much, and, as she sat drawing or working, forming a thousand amusing schemes for the progress and close of their attachment, fancying interesting dialogues, and inventing elegant letters; the conclusion of every imaginary declaration on his side was that she refused him.
dickens|Perhaps.
austen|When are we to begin dancing?
dickens|No; I am not armed.
austen|My conscience told me that I deserved no extraordinary politeness, and I confess that I did not expect to receive more than my due.
austen|It would look odd to be entirely silent for half an hour together; and yet for the advantage of some, conversation ought to be so arranged, as that they may have the trouble of saying as little as possible.
austen|What would you advise me to do?
austen|He started.
austen|Something new for your coachman and horses to be making their way through a storm of snow.
austen|madness, if it is so; but I hope you are mistaken.
austen|Yet he would speak.
dickens|said madame, laughing.
austen|Miss Nash had been telling her something, which she repeated immediately with great delight.
austen|In truth I must acknowledge that, with all the disadvantages of this humble parsonage, I should not think anyone abiding in it an object of compassion, while they are sharers of our intimacy at Rosings.
austen|Emma was quite at a loss.
dickens|When he stopped for drink, he moved this muffler with his left hand, only while he poured his liquor in with his right; as soon as that was done, he muffled again.
dickens|Extermination is good doctrine, my wife, said Defarge, rather troubled; in general, I say nothing against it.
dickens|He gave me a most tremendous dip and roll, so that the church jumped over its own weathercock.
dickens|All is lost!
austen|Dont think me angry, however, for I only mean to let you know that I had not imagined such inquiries to be necessary on your side.
austen|If Mr Knightley did not begin seriously, he was obliged to proceed so, for his proposal was caught at with delight; and the Oh!
dickens|I mean, said Mr Cruncher, that he warnt never in it.
dickens|This is that written paper.
austen|Emma amused herself by protesting that it was very extraordinary, indeed, and that she had not a syllable to say for him.
dickens|said she.
austen|The first part of Mrs Gardiners business on her arrival was to distribute her presents and describe the newest fashions.
dickens|At the same time, the thin straight lines of the setting of the eyes, and the thin straight lips, and the markings in the nose, curved with a sarcasm that looked handsomely diabolic.
dickens|You dont think your breathing is affected, my dear boy?
austen|They will join me early tomorrow, he continued, and among them are some who will claim an acquaintance with youMr Bingley and his sisters.
dickens|Not yet.
dickens|Into the court.
austen|I defy even Sir William Lucas himself to produce a more valuable soninlaw.
dickens|Which was not at all what I meant, for I had intended my question to apply to his means.
dickens|You little coarse monster, what do you think of me now?
austen|Miss Fairfax, I dare say, would not have me if I were to ask herand I am very sure I shall never ask her.
austen|But never did she go without Mr Woodhouses giving a gentle sigh, and saying, Ah, poor Miss Taylor!
dickens|All on you owns stock and land; which on you owns a broughtup London gentleman?
austen|Composure with a witness!
dickens|Such grace as was visible in it, made it the uglier, showing how warped and perverted all things good by nature were become.
dickens|Such a poor weak little creature!
dickens|Why did you who read this, commit that not dissimilar inconsistency of your own last year, last month, last week?
dickens|As soon as he had apologized for the remissness of his memory, he asked me if he should send Boots for Mr Pumblechook?
dickens|Drummle upon this, informed our host that he much preferred our room to our company, and that as to skill he was more than our master, and that as to strength he could scatter us like chaff.
dickens|We swept on, and I felt that I was highly obnoxious to Camilla.
dickens|I stopped because I thought you were not following what I said.
dickens|I think I shall trade, also, said he, putting his thumbs in his waistcoat pockets, to the West Indies, for sugar, tobacco, and rum.
dickens|It was the sergeant who had spoken to me, and he was now looking round at the company, with his handcuffs invitingly extended towards them in his right hand, and his left on my shoulder.
austen|Allow me, by the way, to observe, my fair cousin, that I do not reckon the notice and kindness of Lady Catherine de Bourgh as among the least of the advantages in my power to offer.
dickens|Be grateful.
austen|It seems an impossibility!
dickens|My meaning, answered the man of business, is, of course, friendly and appreciative, and that it does you the greatest credit, andin short, my meaning is everything you could desire.
dickens|Once more, he took me by both hands and surveyed me with an air of admiring proprietorship smoking with great complacency all the while.
dickens|Now Ill tell you something more, wolf, and this ends it.
austen|Janes solicitude about fetching her own letters had not escaped Emma.
dickens|It had once been noted at the Bar, that while Mr Stryver was a glib man, and an unscrupulous, and a ready, and a bold, he had not that faculty of extracting the essence from a heap of statements, which is among the most striking and necessary of the advocates accomplishments.
dickens|Here, sir!
austen|I was not aware of it myself.
dickens|Where are you going to, at Richmond?
dickens|My darling pretty!
dickens|Will soon what?
dickens|Why dont you go and fetch things, instead of standing there staring at me?
austen|The attentions of a certain person can hardly be among the tittletattle of Highbury yet.
dickens|He did so, and the two patriots, leading his tired horse, turned and rode away without entering the city.
dickens|The escort and the universal watchfulness had completely isolated him.
austen|I should never be happy without him, so think it no harm to be off.
dickens|Pretty well is no answer.
dickens|He will tell you all.
dickens|For, I tell you, here he addressed his wife once more, I wont be gone agin, in this manner.
dickens|At length, it was suggested that the letters were not initials, but the complete word, DIG.
austen|What is right to be done cannot be done too soon.
dickens|With that, Miss Havisham looked distractedly at me for a while, and then burst out again, What had she done!
austen|why not seize the pleasure at once?
austen|After receiving a very indifferent education she is left in Mrs Goddards hands to shift as she can;to move, in short, in Mrs Goddards line, to have Mrs Goddards acquaintance.
dickens|For the honour of the family, I could even resolve to incommode you to that extent.
austen|The word was discovered, and with a faint smile pushed away.
austen|cried Jane.
dickens|And now Ill tell you something.
dickens|With this project formed, we went to bed.
dickens|A certain darkcomplexioned Swab, however, who wouldnt fill, or do anything else that was proposed to him, and whose heart was openly stated by the boatswain to be as black as his figurehead, proposed to two other Swabs to get all mankind into difficulties; which was so effectually done the Swab family having considerable political influence that it took half the evening to set things right, and then it was only brought about through an honest little grocer with a white hat, black gaiters, and red nose, getting into a clock, with a gridiron, and listening, and coming out, and knocking everybody down from behind with the gridiron whom he couldnt confute with what he had overheard.
dickens|Dont despond, said Carton, very gently; dont grieve.
dickens|I had left directions that I was to be called at seven; for it was plain that I must see Wemmick before seeing any one else, and equally plain that this was a case in which his Walworth sentiments only could be taken.
dickens|Saving his troublesome sense of having been low on one occasion since his return,on which point he began to hold forth to Herbert, the moment my revelation was finished,he had no perception of the possibility of my finding any fault with my good fortune.
dickens|Joe demanded.
austen|Yes, my dear, I ran home, as I said I should, to help grandmama to bed, and got back again, and nobody missed me.
austen|Only three of us.
dickens|Two muttonchops, three potatoes, some split peas, a little flour, two ounces of butter, a pinch of salt, and all this black pepper.
dickens|Do you break off, she asked then, with her former air of being afraid of me, because you hate me too much to bear to speak to me?
dickens|There was a murmur of confidence and approval, and then the man who hungered, asked Is this rustic to be sent back soon?
dickens|I am told you had a remarkable breed of tumblers.
dickens|He had a curious idea that the inkstand was on the side of him where it was not, and constantly dipped his pen into space, and seemed quite satisfied with the result.
dickens|And my terror was greatest of all when I found no figure there.
dickens|Take my arm, sir.
dickens|Yes?
austen|She saw, that in persuading herself, in fancying, in acting to the contrary, she had been entirely under a delusion, totally ignorant of her own heartand, in short, that she had never really cared for Frank Churchill at all!
austen|She smiled her acceptance; and nothing less than a summons from Richmond was to take him back before the following evening.
dickens|She shook her head again.
austen|Think only of the past as its remembrance gives you pleasure.
dickens|The debate upon it grew so lively, indeed, that at least six more honorable members told six more, during the discussion, that they believed they knew where they were to be found.
dickens|Stop a minute, though, he said, wheeling round before we had gone many paces.
dickens|Seeing nothing save what I had seen already, I turned back into the house, and stood just within the shelter of the doorway, looking out into the night.
austen|Why, really, dear Emma, I say that he is so very much occupied by the idea of not being in love with her, that I should not wonder if it were to end in his being so at last.
dickens|It seemed to me that he took all blows and buffets now with just the same air as he had taken mine then.
austen|She saw herself the object of attention, to tens and to scores of them at present unknown.
dickens|In the moonlight which is always sad, as the light of the sun itself isas the light called human life isat its coming and its going.
dickens|Doctor, your clients are people of condition.
austen|Must it be so?
dickens|Joe felt, as I did, that he had made a point there, and he pulled hard at his pipe to keep himself from weakening it by repetition.
austen|This accounted to Elizabeth for Mr Wickhams being among them.
dickens|It depends upon how you dewelop your talents.
austen|No one, I believe, can blame her more than she is disposed to blame herself.
austen|It was a style of beauty, of which elegance was the reigning character, and as such, she must, in honour, by all her principles, admire itelegance, which, whether of person or of mind, she saw so little in Highbury.
dickens|Im your Rome, you know.
dickens|Well!
dickens|It meant, when it was given, that whoever had this house could want nothing else.
austen|Does your charge give you much trouble?
dickens|I wont.
dickens|Estella, for her part, likewise treated me as before, except that she did not condescend to speak.
austen|Mr Woodhouse came in, and very soon led to the subject again, by the recurrence of his very frequent inquiry of Well, my dears, how does your book go on?
dickens|But you never will, you see, said Biddy.
dickens|To tell you the truth, I think he is; though it sounds bold in me to say so, for you must know him far better than I do.
dickens|Did I not see her with my own eyes and hear her with my own ears, come into the room just now and ask to speak to you?
dickens|Buzzing from the blueflies.
dickens|The third day came and went, the fourth, the fifth.
dickens|Presently another click came, and another little door tumbled open with Miss Skiffins on it; then Miss Skiffins shut up and John tumbled open; then Miss Skiffins and John both tumbled open together, and finally shut up together.
dickens|Let him be at peace.
dickens|But, I said to Herbert that, before I could go abroad, I must see both Estella and Miss Havisham.
dickens|Even Mr Jaggers started when I said those words.
austen|At present I have not room to do them justice.
austen|Adieu to disappointment and spleen.
austen|The cold, however, was severe; and by the time the second carriage was in motion, a few flakes of snow were finding their way down, and the sky had the appearance of being so overcharged as to want only a milder air to produce a very white world in a very short time.
austen|A little while ago, he was at Weymouth.
dickens|And God knows I do!
dickens|His chin dropped upon his hand, and his white hair overshadowed his face  Have you spoken to Lucie?
dickens|No.
austen|Instead of forgetting him, his behaviour was such that she could not avoid the internal suggestion of Can it really be as my brother imagined?
dickens|All his fellows stooped to look under the carriage.
dickens|The Doctor looked desolately round the room, shook his head, and answered, in a low voice, Not at all.
dickens|Mrswhats the name of them wild beasts with humps, old chap?
austen|Nonsensical girl!
dickens|But I would leave the matter there.
dickens|Seeking them from me, my nephew, said the Marquis, touching him on the breast with his forefingerthey were now standing by the hearthyou will for ever seek them in vain, be assured.
austen|You never could persuade her to read half so much as you wished.
austen|she cried.
austen|He sat down for a few moments, and then getting up, walked about the room.
dickens|I repeated.
dickens|That Colonel durst no more take leave of him, than that turnkey durst ask him his intentions respecting a case.
austen|I declare after all there is no enjoyment like reading!
austen|And it is so cheerful a place, that it could not fail of being of use to Mr Woodhouses spirits, which, I understand, are sometimes much depressed.
austen|It is a sort of thing which nobody could have expected.
austen|While she spoke, Wickham looked as if scarcely knowing whether to rejoice over her words, or to distrust their meaning.
dickens|Here am I, getting on in the first year of my time, and, since the day of my being bound, I have never thanked Miss Havisham, or asked after her, or shown that I remember her.
austen|You are so noble in your ideas!
austen|I will put on my things in a moment.
dickens|The spider?
austen|She asked no more questions therefore, merely employed her own fancy, and that soon pointed out to her the probability of its being some money concernsomething just come to light, of a disagreeable nature in the circumstances of the family,something which the late event at Richmond had brought forward.
austen|It is the greatest of favours when Miss de Bourgh comes in.
austen|Well, sir, the time must come when you will be paid for all this, when you will have little labour and great enjoyment.
austen|Part of her meaning was to conceal some favourite thoughts of her own and Mr Westons on the subject, as much as possible.
dickens|As The Vengeance descends from her elevation to do it, the tumbrils begin to discharge their loads.
dickens|Early next morning we went out together, and at the corner of Giltspur Street by Smithfield, I left Herbert to go his way into the City, and took my way to Little Britain.
dickens|Better, I could not help saying, to have left her a natural heart, even to be bruised or broken.
dickens|It was like her selfforgetfulness to transfer the remark to my sister, and to get up and be busy about her, making her more comfortable; thats sadly true!
dickens|She wrung her hands, and crushed her white hair, and returned to this cry over and over again.
austen|It is so much beyond any thing I deserve.
dickens|None, said he.
dickens|Their housekeeping was of a very frugal kind not only because that was the safest way of life, involving the least offence to the people, but because they were not rich, and Charles, throughout his imprisonment, had had to pay heavily for his bad food, and for his guard, and towards the living of the poorer prisoners.
dickens|I wondered whether the two swollen faces were of Mr Jaggerss family, and, if he were so unfortunate as to have had a pair of such illlooking relations, why he stuck them on that dusty perch for the blacks and flies to settle on, instead of giving them a place at home.
dickens|But he didnt.
austen|It was the delay of a great deal of pleasure and parade.
austen|You will know it all in time.
dickens|Accept my cordial thanks.
austen|They took a few turns together along the walk.
dickens|Whose child was Estella?
dickens|Who can gossip of an evening, under that shadow!
dickens|At all events Miss Havisham has that impression, and I write in obedience to it.
dickens|The woodsawyer said he would be proud and flattered to attend the citizeness.
dickens|See her knitting in my hand, and her empty chair ready for her.
dickens|We were all going to follow, and were all in course of being tied up separately by Trabb into ridiculous bundles.
austen|All this was acknowledged to Mrs Gardiner; and after relating the circumstances, she thus went on I am now convinced, my dear aunt, that I have never been much in love; for had I really experienced that pure and elevating passion, I should at present detest his very name, and wish him all manner of evil.
austen|You have drawn two pretty pictures; but I think there may be a thirda something between the donothing and the doall.
dickens|I describe everything exactly as it took place, constraining my mind not to wander from the task.
dickens|Pip, said Joe.
dickens|Madame Defarge looked superciliously at the client, and nodded in confirmation.
dickens|And all that I know, I retorted, you know.
austen|Mr Collins was also in the same state of angry pride.
dickens|In these dialogues, my sister spoke to me as if she were morally wrenching one of my teeth out at every reference; while Pumblechook himself, selfconstituted my patron, would sit supervising me with a depreciatory eye, like the architect of my fortunes who thought himself engaged on a very unremunerative job.
dickens|In the gloomy tilepaved entry to the gloomy tilepaved staircase, Monsieur Defarge bent down on one knee to the child of his old master, and put her hand to his lips.
austen|You would not wish to disappoint and mortify the Coles, I am sure, sir; friendly, good sort of people as ever lived, and who have been your neighbours these ten years.
austen|I am rather proud of little George.
austen|Excellent dancing indeed!
dickens|If she dont hear the roll of those dreadful carts, now very nigh their journeys end, said Mr Cruncher, glancing over his shoulder, its my opinion that indeed she never will hear anything else in this world.
dickens|Murder.
austen|seeing you pass by so often, and knowing how much trouble you must have.
austen|You understand every thing.
austen|However, she is very agreeable, and Mrs Bates too, in a different way.
austen|The idea lasted while a turning in the walk concealed him from their view; the turning past, he was immediately before them.
dickens|If you long for it now, thats enough.
austen|Why should they not go on to Scotland if that had been the case?
dickens|And he had better play there, said my sister, shaking her head at me as an encouragement to be extremely light and sportive, or Ill work him.
dickens|Fearful of having it confirmed, though it was all but a conviction, I avoided the newspapers, and begged Herbert to whom I had confided the circumstances of our last interview never to speak of her to me.
dickens|This exordium, and Miss Prosss two hands in quite agonised entreaty clasping his, decided Mr Cruncher.
austen|When Mrs Bennet was told of this, she did not express so much satisfaction as her children expected, considering what her anxiety for his life had been before.
austen|What is this?
austen|that is quiteI suppose there never was a piece of news more generally interesting.
dickens|Some sense of the grimlyludicrous moved me to a fretful laugh, as I replied, I have looked over it.
austen|And Mr Dixon seems a very charming young man, quite worthy of him.
austen|He will be forgot, and we shall all be as we were before.
dickens|Go, Pip.
dickens|Just Heaven!
austen|Your idea of the ponies is delightful.
austen|She shook her head.
austen|You are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room, said Mr Darcy, looking at the eldest Miss Bennet.
austen|Thank Heaven!
dickens|You, is it, Mr Pip?
dickens|I dont like Jerrys voice, if it is Jerry, growled the guard to himself.
dickens|Her manner was one of passionate grief; by turns she clasped her veinous and knotted hands together with wild energy, and laid one of them on the carriagedoortenderly, caressingly, as if it had been a human breast, and could be expected to feel the appealing touch.
austen|Has Perry seen her?
austen|But what did such particulars explain?
dickens|My dear Handel, he returned, I shall esteem and respect your confidence.
austen|What two letters!
austen|For my own part, she rejoined, I must confess that I never could see any beauty in her.
dickens|Do you deceive and entrap him, Estella?
austen|He told her the news.
austen|What is the foolish girl about?
austen|She then joined them soon enough to see Lydia, with anxious parade, walk up to her mothers right hand, and hear her say to her eldest sister, Ah!
dickens|He replied, A capitalist,an Insurer of Ships.
dickens|I congratulate you, my brother, were his words as he turned round.
austen|He knows he is wrong, and has nothing rational to urge.
dickens|Is she, uncle?
dickens|She was not a goodlooking woman, my sister; and I had a general impression that she must have made Joe Gargery marry her by hand.
dickens|In such risings of fire and risings of seathe firm earth shaken by the rushes of an angry ocean which had now no ebb, but was always on the flow, higher and higher, to the terror and wonder of the beholders on the shorethree years of tempest were consumed.
austen|A very few tomorrows stood between the young people of Highbury and happiness.
dickens|No, indeed.
dickens|The fingers of the knitting women were vicious, with the experience that they could tear.
austen|So afraid you might have a headache!
dickens|Oh, yes, yes!
dickens|The people from the market did it.
austen|He appeared to have a very open tempercertainly a very cheerful and lively one; she could observe nothing wrong in his notions, a great deal decidedly right; he spoke of his uncle with warm regard, was fond of talking of himsaid he would be the best man in the world if he were left to himself; and though there was no being attached to the aunt, he acknowledged her kindness with gratitude, and seemed to mean always to speak of her with respect.
dickens|The air of the parlor being faint with the smell of sweetcake, I looked about for the table of refreshments; it was scarcely visible until one had got accustomed to the gloom, but there was a cutup plum cake upon it, and there were cutup oranges, and sandwiches, and biscuits, and two decanters that I knew very well as ornaments, but had never seen used in all my life; one full of port, and one of sherry.
dickens|O, my good man, there was first a great crash, and then a great stillness, and that stillness seems to be fixed and unchangeable, never to be broken any more as long as my life lasts.
austen|If you do not choose to understand me, forgive my impertinence.
dickens|Looking in, I saw a lighted candle on a table, a bench, and a mattress on a truckle bedstead.
austen|Her ladyships carriage is regularly ordered for us.
dickens|The furniture was all very solid and good, like his watchchain.
dickens|A ghostseeing effect in Joes own countenance informed me that Herbert had entered the room.
austen|I was angry perhaps at first, but my anger soon began to take a proper direction.
austen|Very luckymarrying as they did, upon an acquaintance formed only in a public place!
dickens|Her breathing was so difficult to trace, that I carefully tried the pulse and the heart.
austen|We will not be parted.
austen|She made him, by her acceptance, as happy even as he is deserving.
dickens|I stood with my lamp held out over the stairrail, and he came slowly within its light.
austen|The black mare was blameless; they were right who had named Mrs Churchill as the cause.
austen|She meant to be impertinently curious, just as such an Anne Cox should be.
austen|I have not forgotten it, I assure you.
austen|Pleasure in seeing dancing!
dickens|This was coming to the point, and I thought it a sensible way of expressing himself.
dickens|I know the moves of it.
dickens|Yet a gentleman should not be unjust neither, said Biddy, turning away her head.
dickens|The hands of the man who sawed the wood, left red marks on the billets; and the forehead of the woman who nursed her baby, was stained with the stain of the old rag she wound about her head again.
austen|Yes, indeed, there is every thing in the world that can make her happy in it.
austen|Well, I declare  They walked off, followed in half a minute by Mr Knightley.
dickens|Him?
dickens|The man slept on, indifferent to showers of hail and intervals of brightness, to sunshine on his face and shadow, to the paltering lumps of dull ice on his body and the diamonds into which the sun changed them, until the sun was low in the west, and the sky was glowing.
dickens|All the time, our overfraught hearts are beating at a rate that would far outstrip the fastest gallop of the fastest horses ever foaled.
austen|Jane instantly gave a look at Elizabeth which spoke her distress at such premeditation, and her entreaty that she would not give in to it.
dickens|she said, laying her hands, one upon the other, on her left side.
dickens|The same.
austen|How merry we shall be together when we meet!
austen|Dear Harriet, I give myself joy of this.
austen|So much the betteror so much the worseI do not know which.
austen|continued Mrs Elton; Knightley himself!
austen|He then shut the door, and, coming up to her, claimed the good wishes and affection of a sister.
austen|Patty makes an excellent appledumpling.
austen|Jane was beyond competition her favourite child.
dickens|And still, not a word of the robbery.
dickens|Mindful of the secret, Darnay with great difficulty checked himself, and said You may not understand the gentleman.
austen|Does nothing occur to you?
dickens|Well!
austen|In spite of her deeplyrooted dislike, she could not be insensible to the compliment of such a mans affection, and though her intentions did not vary for an instant, she was at first sorry for the pain he was to receive; till, roused to resentment by his subsequent language, she lost all compassion in anger.
dickens|But I saw him collapse as his master rubbed me out with his hands, and my first decided experience of the stupendous power of money was, that it had morally laid upon his back Trabbs boy.
austen|I have not a doubt of your doing very well together.
austen|You will be censured, slighted, and despised, by everyone connected with him.
dickens|Come, come, Mr Barsad!
dickens|Here is a fellow, who, infected by the most pestilent and blasphemous code of devilry that ever was known, abandoned his property to the vilest scum of the earth that ever did murder by wholesale, and you ask me why I am sorry that a man who instructs youth knows him?
austen|One is so fenced and guarded from the weather, that not a breath of air can find its way unpermitted.
austen|It used to stand here.
austen|You will all be going soon I suppose; the whole party breaking up.
austen|Oh!
dickens|I only wanted you to know that I am doing very well in my apprenticeship, and am always much obliged to you.
austen|If it would be good to her, I am sure it would be evil to himself; a very shameful and degrading connexion.
dickens|Sydney, I rather despair of making myself intelligible to you, because you are such an insensible dog.
dickens|O Miss Manette, when the little picture of a happy fathers face looks up in yours, when you see your own bright beauty springing up anew at your feet, think now and then that there is a man who would give his life, to keep a life you love beside you!
austen|But it would not do; he had not come to the point.
dickens|So unchanging was the dull old house, the yellow light in the darkened room, the faded spectre in the chair by the dressingtable glass, that I felt as if the stopping of the clocks had stopped Time in that mysterious place, and, while I and everything else outside it grew older, it stood still.
dickens|This mode of address was now prescribed by decree.
dickens|No, Joe, there was nothing at all of the kind.
austen|Follies and nonsense, whims and inconsistencies, do divert me, I own, and I laugh at them whenever I can.
dickens|said he, mistaking me; the retirement reminds you of the country.
dickens|muttered Joe, shaking his head at me in very serious remonstrance.
austen|There was a bustle on her approach; a good deal of moving and talking.
dickens|I have pictured my daughter, to myself, as perfectly forgetful of merather, altogether ignorant of me, and unconscious of me.
dickens|Now, Heaven defeat the fancy of Lucie Darnay, and keep these feet far out of her life!
austen|Jane confessed herself a little surprised at the match; but she said less of her astonishment than of her earnest desire for their happiness; nor could Elizabeth persuade her to consider it as improbable.
dickens|Suddenlyclickyoure caught!
dickens|Business seems bad?
dickens|Thus, you were to hammer boys roundOld Clem!
dickens|And indeed, sir, pursued Mr Lorry, not minding him, I really dont know what you have to do with the matter.
austen|In a country neighbourhood you move in a very confined and unvarying society.
dickens|I followed the candle down, as I had followed the candle up, and she stood it in the place where we had found it.
austen|I am thinking of what you have been telling me, said she.
dickens|Down, Evremonde!
dickens|He must have had a tiresome journey of it, for Mr Wopsle, being knocked up, was in such a very bad temper that if the Church had been thrown open, he would probably have excommunicated the whole expedition, beginning with Joe and myself.
dickens|she cried, pointing him out.
austen|How can you imagine such conduct practicable?
dickens|Even to hear that you had such thoughts of a daughter who never existed, strikes to my heart as if I had been that child.
austen|Emma saw it.
austen|When they were all in the drawingroom, the questions which Elizabeth had already asked were of course repeated by the others, and they soon found that Jane had no intelligence to give.
austen|The Gardiners stayed a week at Longbourn; and what with the Phillipses, the Lucases, and the officers, there was not a day without its engagement.
dickens|As I stood opposite to Mr Pocket, Junior, delivering him the bags, One, Two, I saw the starting appearance come into his own eyes that I knew to be in mine, and he said, falling back,  Lord bless me, youre the prowling boy!
dickens|Her look was very intent.
dickens|We waited for Wemmick, and he made no sign.
dickens|It would be worse than useless now to inquire which; worse than useless to seek to know whether he has been for years overlooked, or always designedly held prisoner.
dickens|Defarge was produced, when the court was quiet enough to admit of his being heard, and rapidly expounded the story of the imprisonment, and of his having been a mere boy in the Doctors service, and of the release, and of the state of the prisoner when released and delivered to him.
dickens|The basin fell to the ground broken, and the water flowed to the feet of Madame Defarge.
dickens|Take me in at the cathedral, at Three oClock, or as near it as you can, and I am sure it will be better than our going from here.
dickens|What can this be!
dickens|It is the law.
austen|He was delighted with every thing; admired Hartfield sufficiently for Mr Woodhouses ear; and when their going farther was resolved on, confessed his wish to be made acquainted with the whole village, and found matter of commendation and interest much oftener than Emma could have supposed.
austen|However, my resolution is taken as to noticing Jane Fairfax.
dickens|he added again, after a peal of thunder.
dickens|Now, I have nothing to say to you, said Mr Jaggers, throwing his finger at them.
austen|Mr Darcys letter to Lady Catherine was in a different style; and still different from either was what Mr Bennet sent to Mr Collins, in reply to his last.
dickens|I have done my best to prepare myself, and I naturally have a strong and eager interest to know what they are.
dickens|You consider it so?
austen|Her silence disturbed him; and after observing her a little while, he added,  Emma, my love, you said that this circumstance would not now make you unhappy; but I am afraid it gives you more pain than you expected.
dickens|It began with the strange gentlemans sitting down at the table, drawing the candle to him, and looking over some entries in his pocketbook.
dickens|Was that when we had a difference of opinion?
dickens|It was a dull evening, for Wemmick drew his wine, when it came round, quite as a matter of business,just as he might have drawn his salary when that came round,and with his eyes on his chief, sat in a state of perpetual readiness for crossexamination.
dickens|Biddy sat quietly sewing, shedding no more tears, and while I looked at her and thought about it all, it occurred to me that perhaps I had not been sufficiently grateful to Biddy.
austen|Her father had been an attorney in Meryton, and had left her four thousand pounds.
dickens|You know I never shall be, so thats always.
austen|They all paint tables, cover screens, and net purses.
dickens|I not only prevented him getting off the marshes, but I dragged him here,dragged him this far on his way back.
dickens|It has almost made me mad to sit here of a night and see him before me, so bound up with my fortunes and misfortunes, and yet so unknown to me, except as the miserable wretch who terrified me two days in my childhood!
austen|It did.
austen|Mrs Bennet was quite in the fidgets.
austen|She was not yet dancing; she was working her way up from the bottom, and had therefore leisure to look around, and by only turning her head a little she saw it all.
dickens|said Stryver, slapping the desk with his contentious hand, opening his eyes wider, and taking a long breath, if I understand you, Mr Lorry, Ill be hanged!
dickens|Dear me!
dickens|We will say that he was unexpectedly found at his forge again.
austen|The garden sloping to the road, the house standing in it, the green pales, and the laurel hedge, everything declared they were arriving.
austen|A young woman, if she fall into bad hands, may be teased, and kept at a distance from those she wants to be with; but one cannot comprehend a young mans being under such restraint, as not to be able to spend a week with his father, if he likes it.
dickens|To which the cheerful Aged replied, All right, John, my boy, all right!
austen|They were so deserving, that a little higher should have been enough but as it was, how could she have done otherwise?
austen|Pilfering was housebreaking to Mr Woodhouses fears.
dickens|So suddenly and smartly did he do this, that we all stopped in our foolish contention.
austen|How very comfortable they make it;impossible to feel cold with such precautions.
dickens|Do you often come back?
dickens|Have you got it?
austen|Oh!
austen|His mother and sisters were very fond of him.
dickens|Perhaps we had better go to your place of residence.
austen|Do you not consider that a connection with you must disgrace him in the eyes of everybody?
austen|Could he by a touch of his finger have instantly taken back his wife, there would have been a motive; but his coming would probably prolong rather than break up the party.
dickens|Courage, dear miss!
austen|Imprudent as the marriage between Mr Wickham and our poor Lydia would be, we are now anxious to be assured it has taken place, for there is but too much reason to fear they are not gone to Scotland.
dickens|He did not take the identification as a compliment; but he made the best of it, and turned it off with a laugh.
dickens|I declare to you, on the faith of a gentleman, that I have long dismissed it from my mind.
dickens|Tell monsieur what kind of shoe it is, and the makers name.
austen|the true hazle eyeand so brilliant!
dickens|The bridge was a plank, and it crossed a chasm about four feet wide and two deep.
austen|Oh!
austen|John Knightley looked at him with amazement, then shrugged his shoulders, and said, I could not have believed it even of him.
austen|papa, we have missed seeing them but one entire day since they married.
austen|They came from Birmingham, which is not a place to promise much, you know, Mr Weston.
dickens|Every question told.
dickens|Out of such remembrances I brought into the light of the fire a halfformed terror that it might not be safe to be shut up there with him in the dead of the wild solitary night.
dickens|I had thought about that, while we had been there side by side.
austen|She was obliged to break off from these very pleasant observations, which were otherwise of a sort to run into great length, by the eagerness of Harriets wondering questions.
austen|Another room of much better size might be secured for the purpose; but it was at the other end of the house, and a long awkward passage must be gone through to get at it.
dickens|and began gnawing another finger.
dickens|Yes, I replied, and his name is Provisfrom New South Wales.
dickens|Go on, said Sydney Carton.
austen|You will easily comprehend, from these particulars, that Mr Wickhams circumstances are not so hopeless as they are generally believed to be.
austen|But his anger, I am persuaded, lasted no longer than he remained in any doubt of your sisters sentiments.
dickens|Yes, Joseph, says you, here Pumblechook shook his head and hand at me, he knows my total deficiency of common human gratitoode.
austen|It is a pity that they were ever got over.
austen|I am sure they will bring him soon.
dickens|a recommendation which it took extremely ill.
dickens|I told you from the first it was a tossup.
austen|Dinnerparties and eveningparties were made for him and his lady; and invitations flowed in so fast that she had soon the pleasure of apprehending they were never to have a disengaged day.
dickens|I forget what you were accused of?
austen|But he found Lydia absolutely resolved on remaining where she was.
austen|A woman with fewer resources than I have, need not have been at a loss.
austen|Every park has its beauty and its prospects; and Elizabeth saw much to be pleased with, though she could not be in such raptures as Mr Collins expected the scene to inspire, and was but slightly affected by his enumeration of the windows in front of the house, and his relation of what the glazing altogether had originally cost Sir Lewis de Bourgh.
austen|would not she add her persuasions to his, to induce Miss Woodhouse not to go to Mrs Goddards till it were certain that Miss Smiths disorder had no infection?
dickens|I said that I did not blame him, or suspect him, or mistrust him, but I wanted assurance of the truth from him.
austen|Mrs Weston begs you to put on your tippet.
dickens|I received this letter by the post on Monday morning, and therefore its appointment was for next day.
dickens|Yes, sir.
austen|He was not calm; his spirits were evidently fluttered; there was restlessness about him.
austen|Mr Collins then returned to Elizabeth.
dickens|We had an excellent breakfast, and when any one declined anything on table, Wemmick said, Provided by contract, you know; dont be afraid of it!
dickens|Is thereit was the good creatures way to affect to make light of anything that was a great anxiety with them all, and to come at it in this chance manneris there any prospect yet, of our getting out of this place?
austen|Every thing was to take its natural course, however, neither impelled nor assisted.
dickens|Yes, yes, I know it.
dickens|Miss Havisham was an only child?
dickens|That was all the writing.
austen|But the horror of what might possibly happen almost took from me my faculties.
austen|Do not you pity me?
dickens|A moment!
austen|I do not care for myself.
dickens|Though how this man knows it was a sham, is a wonder of wonders to me.
austen|Persuaded as Miss Bingley was that Darcy admired Elizabeth, this was not the best method of recommending herself; but angry people are not always wise; and in seeing him at last look somewhat nettled, she had all the success she expected.
dickens|If this fellow is a gentleman, I dont understand him.
dickens|Military officers destitute of military knowledge; naval officers with no idea of a ship; civil officers without a notion of affairs; brazen ecclesiastics, of the worst world worldly, with sensual eyes, loose tongues, and looser lives; all totally unfit for their several callings, all lying horribly in pretending to belong to them, but all nearly or remotely of the order of Monseigneur, and therefore foisted on all public employments from which anything was to be got; these were to be told off by the score and the score.
dickens|Ah!
austen|Oh!
dickens|When a mans alone on these flats, with a light head and a light stomach, perishing of cold and want, he hears nothin all night, but guns firing, and voices calling.
austen|Mr Elton looked all alarm on the occasion, as he exclaimed,  A sorethroat!
dickens|It proceeded from Miss Pross, the wild red woman, strong of hand, whose acquaintance he had first made at the Royal George Hotel at Dover, and had since improved.
dickens|Astonishing!
dickens|Saving for the one weird smile at first, I should have felt almost sure that Miss Havishams face could not smile.
dickens|Oh!
dickens|Releasing his arm, she laid her hand upon his shoulder.
dickens|Now, I warned you before, said he, throwing his forefinger at the terrified client, that if you ever presumed to talk in that way here, Id make an example of you.
dickens|Then he began grumbling again  With your flying into the face of your own wittles and drink!
austen|Yes.
austen|Upon my word, if this is what I am to expect, we married women must begin to exert ourselves!
dickens|Of course, there can be no objection to your being sorry for him, and Id put down a fivepound note myself to get him out of it.
austen|Her daughter, Miss de Bourgh, will have a very large fortune, and it is believed that she and her cousin will unite the two estates.
dickens|Mr Pocket did not object to this arrangement, but urged that before any step could possibly be taken in it, it must be submitted to my guardian.
dickens|I hope so.
dickens|I suppose you make it twenty pounds, said I, smiling.
austen|Colonel Fitzwilliam was no longer an object; she could think only of her letter.
austen|With these rooms I might now have been familiarly acquainted!
austen|March was to take Elizabeth to Hunsford.
dickens|And if you keep it under your skirts like that, whos to help tumbling?
dickens|Lord, Mr Pip!
dickens|They are not in danger?
austen|And if you find them troublesome, you must send them home again.
austen|She promised him again and again to comemuch oftener than he doubtedand was extremely gratified by such a proof of intimacy, such a distinguishing compliment as she chose to consider it.
austen|There will be a great many people talking at once.
dickens|To my surprise, he seemed at once to be principally if not solely interested in Drummle.
dickens|No!
austen|You expect me to account for opinions which you choose to call mine, but which I have never acknowledged.
dickens|They were both so overjoyed to see me, so proud to see me, so touched by my coming to them, so delighted that I should have come by accident to make their day complete!
austen|And with no one to speak to about what I felt, no Jane to comfort me and say that I had not been so very weak and vain and nonsensical as I knew I had!
austen|And besides the operation of this, as a general principle, you may be sure that Miss Fairfax awes Mrs Elton by her superiority both of mind and manner; and that, face to face, Mrs Elton treats her with all the respect which she has a claim to.
dickens|What does it matter to me, you ask me, where you air a going?
austen|No, she had heard from him very lately, but having answered the letter, had put it away.
austen|I am not going to run away, papa, said Kitty fretfully.
dickens|And bless my heart, I involuntarily added aloud, its tonight!
dickens|He went into that part of his life, and a dark wild part it is.
austen|Is this a hint to me, Lizzy, said her father, to send for the horses?
austen|Time will generally lessen the interest of every attachment not within the daily circlebut that is not the change I had in view for you.
dickens|We remained at the publichouse until the tide turned, and then Magwitch was carried down to the galley and put on board.
dickens|It is the law, remarked the ancient clerk, turning his surprised spectacles upon him.
dickens|On whom should I fling myself away?
dickens|Its a note of two lines, Pip, said Mr Jaggers, handing it on, sent up to me by Miss Havisham on account of her not being sure of your address.
dickens|May I, as an old friend and wellwisher?
austen|I had always a part to act.
dickens|He must take his chance, said Madame Defarge.
dickens|At the steepest point of the hill there was a little burialground, with a Cross and a new large figure of Our Saviour on it; it was a poor figure in wood, done by some inexperienced rustic carver, but he had studied the figure from the lifehis own life, maybefor it was dreadfully spare and thin.
dickens|If they disclosed to me, as I suspect they did, that I should not come back, and that Biddy was quite right, all I can say is,they were quite right too.
austen|She had herself been first with him for many years past.
dickens|Never mind what you have always longed for, Mr Pip, he retorted; keep to the record.
dickens|Why, I wrote from Portsmouth to a person in London, for particulars of your address.
austen|Its character as a ballroom caught him; and instead of passing on, he stopt for several minutes at the two superior sashed windows which were open, to look in and contemplate its capabilities, and lament that its original purpose should have ceased.
dickens|Madame Defarge met the lifted eyebrows and forehead with a cold, impassive stare.
dickens|Gradually there arose before me the hat, head, neckcloth, waistcoat, trousers, boots, of a member of society of about my own standing.
austen|Upon such occasions poor Mr Woodhouses feelings were in sad warfare.
austen|Elizabeth felt herself completely taken in.
dickens|The tide ran strong, I took care to lose none of it, and our steady stroke carried us on thoroughly well.
austen|Your word!
dickens|If I give you the money for this purpose, will you keep my secret as you have kept your own?
dickens|A long time, I suppose, said Defarge.
austen|He was wishing to get the better of his attachment to herself, she just recovering from her mania for Mr Elton.
austen|He danced only four dances, though gentlemen were scarce; and, to my certain knowledge, more than one young lady was sitting down in want of a partner.
austen|That is, replied Mr Knightley, she will indulge her even more than she did you, and believe that she does not indulge her at all.
dickens|There was a group assembled round the fire at the Three Jolly Bargemen, attentive to Mr Wopsle as he read the newspaper aloud.
dickens|Your banknotes had a musty odour, as if they were fast decomposing into rags again.
austen|Mr Knightley I declare!
dickens|You are envious, Biddy, and grudging.
austen|I suppose you have heardand are come to give us joy.
austen|This is not the sort of happiness which a man would in general wish to owe to his wife; but where other powers of entertainment are wanting, the true philosopher will derive benefit from such as are given.
austen|Ah!
austen|Consider how many of my dearest friends are now in Brunswick Square.
dickens|The confidence is not of my seeking, recollect.
dickens|I dont spell it at all, said Joe.
dickens|And what says he?
austen|Really, Mr Collins, cried Elizabeth with some warmth, you puzzle me exceedingly.
austen|And never allow yourself to be blinded by prejudice?
austen|But, he added, you will of course wish to have your humble respects delivered to them, with your grateful thanks for their kindness to you while you have been here.
austen|Still, however, he was not happy.
dickens|I was not long in discovering that she was a frequent visitor at the Castle; for, on our going in, and my complimenting Wemmick on his ingenious contrivance for announcing himself to the Aged, he begged me to give my attention for a moment to the other side of the chimney, and disappeared.
dickens|No, he scorned the base insinuation.
dickens|He crammed what little food was left, into the breast of his gray jacket.
austen|Both felt rather anxious to hear him speak again; and after a few minutes silence, he said,  Another thing must be taken into consideration tooMrs Elton does not talk to Miss Fairfax as she speaks of her.
austen|Now for the cream.
dickens|Pooh!
dickens|Why must it be done without his knowledge?
dickens|He spoke of him, in short, not bitterly or meaning to bear hard upon him, but as anybody might who saw him as he showed himself.
austen|In nine cases out of ten a women had better show more affection than she feels.
austen|We will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to that evening, said Elizabeth.
austen|Most cordially, when Miss Bates arrived, did she agree that it must.
austen|That was what happened before tea.
dickens|As the roadmender plied his dusty labour, and the hailclouds, rolling away, revealed bright bars and streaks of sky which were responded to by silver gleams upon the landscape, the little man who wore a red cap now, in place of his blue one seemed fascinated by the figure on the heap of stones.
austen|She certainly did not hate him.
austen|She knows now what gentlemen are; and nothing but a gentleman in education and manner has any chance with Harriet.
dickens|After a short pause of repose, Miss Skiffinsin the absence of the little servant who, it seemed, retired to the bosom of her family on Sunday afternoonswashed up the teathings, in a trifling ladylike amateur manner that compromised none of us.
austen|But then Patty came in, and said it was you.
austen|Will you do me the honour of reading that letter?
dickens|This is the way it was, that when I was a ragged little creetur as much to be pitied as ever I see not that I looked in the glass, for there warnt many insides of furnished houses known to me, I got the name of being hardened.
dickens|cried Miss Pross, clapping her hands again.
dickens|Her father was a country gentleman down in your part of the world, and was a brewer.
dickens|Mr Trabb, said I, its an unpleasant thing to have to mention, because it looks like boasting; but I have come into a handsome property.
dickens|I found out within a few hours, and may mention at once, that Mrs Pocket was the only daughter of a certain quite accidental deceased Knight, who had invented for himself a conviction that his deceased father would have been made a Baronet but for somebodys determined opposition arising out of entirely personal motives,I forget whose, if I ever knew,the Sovereigns, the Prime Ministers, the Lord Chancellors, the Archbishop of Canterburys, anybodys,and had tacked himself on to the nobles of the earth in right of this quite supposititious fact.
austen|It was all pride and insolence.
austen|My perpetual influence could not begin earlier, or you would not have been so much out of humour before.
dickens|Luck changes, says Compeyson; perhaps yours is going to change.
austen|With regard to her not accompanying them to Ireland, her account to her aunt contained nothing but truth, though there might be some truths not told.
austen|I smile because you smile, and shall probably suspect whatever I find you suspect; but at present I do not see what there is to question.
dickens|Not only do I feel, since last night, that I dare not confide to him the details of my projects; but also I feel that if I delay, there is danger of his giving warning, and then they might escape.
austen|It would be almost beginning their life of civility again.
austen|I have already told her so once, by your desire.
austen|Charming people, Mr and Mrs Weston;Mrs Weston indeed is much beyond praise, and he is exactly what one values, so hospitable, and so fond of society;it will be a small party, but where small parties are select, they are perhaps the most agreeable of any.
austen|said she.
austen|I do not care whether I meet him or notexcept that of the two I had rather not see himand indeed I would go any distance round to avoid himbut I do not envy his wife in the least; I neither admire her nor envy her, as I have done she is very charming, I dare say, and all that, but I think her very illtempered and disagreeableI shall never forget her look the other night!
austen|I am sorry, exceedingly sorry, replied Darcy, in a tone of surprise and emotion, that you have ever been informed of what may, in a mistaken light, have given you uneasiness.
austen|Lizzy, when you first read that letter, I am sure you could not treat the matter as you do now.
austen|It was one of the agreeable recollections of the ball, which she walked about the lawn the next morning to enjoy.
austen|There was not a hint of Mr Martin.
austen|I am certainly the most fortunate creature that ever existed!
austen|As to his real character, had information been in her power, she had never felt a wish of inquiring.
austen|Probably not; but Mr Darcy can please where he chooses.
austen|Is it not clear enough?
austen|Can you yourself, Lizzy, so wholly give him up, as to believe him capable of it?
dickens|Good.
dickens|Look at me, said Miss Havisham.
austen|His feelings are natural.
austen|Elizabeth could not help smiling at his easy manner of directing his friend.
dickens|Or Ill have your heart and liver out.
dickens|How goes it, Jacques?
austen|noa very bad plan.
austen|had been a question of his.
austen|I have just as much right to be asked as she has, and more too, for I am two years older.
dickens|Not one of the three could have said, from anything he saw, what either of the other two was like; and each was hidden under almost as many wrappers from the eyes of the mind, as from the eyes of the body, of his two companions.
dickens|I inferred from the methodical nature of Miss Skiffinss arrangements that she made tea there every Sunday night; and I rather suspected that a classic brooch she wore, representing the profile of an undesirable female with a very straight nose and a very new moon, was a piece of portable property that had been given her by Wemmick.
dickens|Either Orlick, or the strange man who had shown me the file.
dickens|I asked myself the question whether I did not surely know that if Estella were beside me at that moment instead of Biddy, she would make me miserable?
dickens|Not satisfied with a dry cleaning, she took to a pail and scrubbingbrush, and cleaned us out of house and home, so that we stood shivering in the backyard.
dickens|He may come close; theres nothing wrong.
austen|Mr Bingley inherited property to the amount of nearly a hundred thousand pounds from his father, who had intended to purchase an estate, but did not live to do it.
austen|Imprudent, if you pleasebut not mad.
dickens|Madame Defarge.
dickens|See what the prisoner is.
dickens|Condemned to inaction and a state of constant restlessness and suspense, I rowed about in my boat, and waited, waited, waited, as I best could.
dickens|Yet he would smoke his pipe at the Battery with a far more sagacious air than anywhere else,even with a learned air,as if he considered himself to be advancing immensely.
austen|I am most seriously displeased.
austen|But he is not the only gentleman you have been lately used to.
dickens|Well?
dickens|What more could I hope to do by prolonging the interview?
austen|With a great deal of pleasure, sir, at any time, said Mr Knightley, laughing, and I agree with you entirely, that it will be a much better thing.
dickens|Here are both men!
dickens|If those eyes of yours were bedwinches, returned Miss Pross, and I was an English fourposter, they shouldnt loose a splinter of me.
austen|We will go as far as Meryton with you, said Catherine and Lydia.
dickens|returned the sergeant, two.
austen|Good gracious!
dickens|In short, I was always full of fears for the rash man who was in hiding.
austen|Ah!
dickens|But I was softened by the softened aspect of the man, and felt a touch of reproach.
dickens|If you have a suspicion in your own breast, keep that suspicion in your own breast.
austen|Another song, however, was soon begged for.
austen|yes, and I shall be very happy in his acquaintance.
dickens|At about the same time, the eyes on the wall acquired a new expression, and in every one of those staring rounds I saw written, DONT GO HOME.
dickens|The looks of all of them were dark, repressed, and revengeful, as they listened to the countrymans story; the manner of all of them, while it was secret, was authoritative too.
austen|And how much may be said in her situation for even that error!
dickens|I am so profoundly interested in its miserable inhabitants.
austen|There are people, who the more you do for them, the less they will do for themselves.
austen|They can do nothing satisfactorily without you.
dickens|She was in great agitation.
austen|To be sure, it would have been more for the advantage of conversation had Miss Lydia Bennet come upon the town; or, as the happiest alternative, been secluded from the world, in some distant farmhouse.
dickens|Yet I know the face.
austen|He called for a few moments, just to leave a piece of paper on the table containing, as he said, a charade, which a friend of his had addressed to a young lady, the object of his admiration, but which, from his manner, Emma was immediately convinced must be his own.
dickens|Always holding tight by the leg of the table with my hands and feet, I saw the miserable creature finger his glass playfully, take it up, smile, throw his head back, and drink the brandy off.
dickens|O yes, sir!
austen|Do your sisters play and sing?
austen|At such a distance as that, you know, things are strangely misrepresented.
austen|Dear Miss Woodhouse!
austen|And till Colonel Forster came himself, not one of you entertained a doubt, I suppose, of their being really married?
dickens|I have obtained the favour that the bearer has a short note      from Charles to his wife.
dickens|The beach was a desert of heaps of sea and stones tumbling wildly about, and the sea did what it liked, and what it liked was destruction.
austen|Lord of the earth and sea, he bends a slave,       And woman, lovely woman, reigns alone.
dickens|My reply was so unexpected, that Mr Jaggers put the handkerchief back into his pocket without completing the usual performance, folded his arms, and looked with stern attention at me, though with an immovable face.
austen|Oh dear, no!
dickens|My work is my business.
austen|And therefore I think I will beg your excuse and take my three turnsmy winter walk.
dickens|At the stairs where we had taken him abroad, and ever since, I had looked warily for any token of our being suspected.
austen|She is still nearer.
dickens|You are a little depressed, too, said madame, whose quick eyes had never been so intent on the accounts, but they had had a ray or two for him.
dickens|How does she use you?
dickens|You see it every day.
dickens|For the present may be a werry good inn, according to London opinions,  said Joe, confidentially, and I believe its character do stand it; but I wouldnt keep a pig in it myself,not in the case that I wished him to fatten wholesome and to eat with a meller flavor on him.
austen|I charge you by all that is sacred, not to attempt concealment.
austen|It is only Mrs Cole, said I, depend upon it.
austen|If your feelings are still what they were last April, tell me so at once.
dickens|Miss Havisham and Estella and the strange house and the strange life appeared to have something to do with everything that was picturesque.
austen|Goodbye.
dickens|The interview lasted but a few minutes, and she gave me a guinea when I was going, and told me to come again on my next birthday.
austen|He was looked on as sufficiently belonging to the place to make his merits and prospects a kind of common concern.
dickens|Enclosed in the letter was a receipt for the debt and costs on which I had been arrested.
austen|If it is designedly done, they cannot be justified; but I have no idea of there being so much design in the world as some persons imagine.
dickens|I may here remark that I suppose myself to be better acquainted than any living authority, with the ridgy effect of a weddingring, passing unsympathetically over the human countenance.
austen|my dear; but so much as Patty has to do!
dickens|Good night!
dickens|said the postmaster, shrugging his shoulders; there may be, or there will be.
dickens|asked Defarge in a whisper.
dickens|I have no doubt that it is, word for word, the same.
austen|I am all astonishment.
dickens|Of my father.
austen|But here there was nothing to be shifted off in a wild speculation on the future.
austen|You know him too well to doubt the rest.
dickens|Mr Wopsle, indeed, wildly cried out, No!
austen|He wished to persuade Mr Woodhouse, as well as Emma, to join the party; and he knew that to have any of them sitting down out of doors to eat would inevitably make him ill.
dickens|Sometimes it was staring and bewildered, and then it was, I dont know her.
dickens|Defarge glanced darkly at him for answer, and walked on in a steady and set silence.
dickens|she cried, despairingly.
austen|There is no saying much for the delicacy of our good friends, the Eltons, was his next observation.
austen|Bingley was by no means deficient, but Darcy was clever.
austen|Very welland as Randalls, I suppose, is not likely to have less influence than heretofore, it strikes me as a possible thing, Emma, that Henry and John may be sometimes in the way.
dickens|It was worth any money to see Wemmick waving a salute to me from the other side of the moat, when we might have shaken hands across it with the greatest ease.
dickens|said he, with a deadly look.
dickens|What do you make, madame?
dickens|Round its hilt was a frill of paper, on which was scrawled  Drive him fast to his tomb.
austen|Keep your raptures for Harriets face.
dickens|Pursuing the narrow intricacies of the streets which at that time tended westward near the Middlesex shore of the river, my readiest access to the Temple was close by the riverside, through Whitefriars.
austen|I certainly have been misunderstanding you, if you feel in doubt as to the purport of your answer.
austen|As we went along, Kitty and I drew up the blinds, and pretended there was nobody in the coach; and I should have gone so all the way, if Kitty had not been sick; and when we got to the George, I do think we behaved very handsomely, for we treated the other three with the nicest cold luncheon in the world, and if you would have gone, we would have treated you too.
dickens|The answers to this question were various and contradictory.
austen|said Emma.
dickens|What are you about?
austen|Mrs Bennet was quite disconcerted.
dickens|Tst, tst!
dickens|Yes.
dickens|Youve got a religious mother, you have, my boy going and flopping herself down, and praying that the breadandbutter may be snatched out of the mouth of her only child.
dickens|So dont tell no more on em, Pip, and live well and die happy.
austen|One does not know what to think.
austen|He thanked her with all his heart, and continued some time to speak with serious feeling of his gratitude and happiness.
austen|I am sorry to find, my love, that my father does not think you looking wellbut I hope it is only from being a little fatigued.
dickens|All these trivial incidents belonged to the routine of life, and the return of morning.
dickens|There were no other passengers that night, but we four.
austen|He answered her in the same style, and the subject dropped.
austen|His good sense and good principles would delight you.
dickens|To this effect the sergeant and the nearest men were speaking under their breath, when Joe and I came up.
austen|Miss Bates, let Emma help you to a little bit of tarta very little bit.
dickens|Dont go, Sarah, she said.
austen|What is the matter now?
dickens|But, it was only the pleasanter to turn to Biddy and to Joe, whose great forbearance shone more brightly than before, if that could be, contrasted with this brazen pretender.
dickens|This morose journeyman had no liking for me.
dickens|No, no, said Herbert, thats my name for him.
austen|You could scarcely escape discredit and misery.
dickens|Shall I tell you?
dickens|muttered young Jerry.
austen|He will have a hot walk.
dickens|Lookee here, Pip, at what is said to you by a true friend.
austen|Perfectly so, I thank you.
dickens|He had nothing else to do, poor fellow, except at a certain hour of every afternoon to go to Lloydsin observance of a ceremony of seeing his principal, I think.
austen|my dear Lydia, she cried, when shall we meet again?
austen|You appear to feel a great dealbut I am not aware how you or any of Miss Fairfaxs acquaintance here, any of those who have known her longer than yourself, can shew her any other attention than  My dear Miss Woodhouse, a vast deal may be done by those who dare to act.
austen|She could only imagine, however, at last that she drew his notice because there was something more wrong and reprehensible, according to his ideas of right, than in any other person present.
dickens|No, I dont remember.
dickens|Mr Cruncher did not assist at the closing sports, but had remained behind in the churchyard, to confer and condole with the undertakers.
austen|How could you be so insolent in your wit to a woman of her character, age, and situation?
dickens|I sold all I had, and put aside as much as I could, for a composition with my creditors,who gave me ample time to pay them in full,and I went out and joined Herbert.
austen|You told us it would be so.
dickens|Everything else has gone from me, little by little, but I have kept this.
austen|Smiles of intelligence passed between her and the gentleman on first glancing towards Miss Fairfax; but it was most prudent to avoid speech.
austen|Mrs Bennet was profuse in her acknowledgments.
dickens|Very kind of her too, all the folks said, and I said, along with all the folks.
dickens|Daring burglaries by armed men, and highway robberies, took place in the capital itself every night; families were publicly cautioned not to go out of town without removing their furniture to upholsterers warehouses for security; the highwayman in the dark was a City tradesman in the light, and, being recognised and challenged by his fellowtradesman whom he stopped in his character of the Captain, gallantly shot him through the head and rode away; the mail was waylaid by seven robbers, and the guard shot three dead, and then got shot dead himself by the other four, in consequence of the failure of his ammunition after which the mail was robbed in peace; that magnificent potentate, the Lord Mayor of London, was made to stand and deliver on Turnham Green, by one highwayman, who despoiled the illustrious creature in sight of all his retinue; prisoners in London gaols fought battles with their turnkeys, and the majesty of the law fired blunderbusses in among them, loaded with rounds of shot and ball; thieves snipped off diamond crosses from the necks of noble lords at Court drawingrooms; musketeers went into St.
dickens|I never see the night myself, masternor yet I dont expect towhat would do that, answered Jerry.
austen|She had turned away; but on hearing herself called, though in a voice which proved it to be Mr Darcy, she moved again towards the gate.
austen|I do think it is, without exception, the best charade I ever read.
austen|I only want to know that Mr Martin is not very, very bitterly disappointed.
dickens|Young Jerry, who had only made a feint of undressing when he went to bed, was not long after his father.
dickens|It was not only that I could have summed up years and years and years while he said a dozen words, but that what he did say presented pictures to me, and not mere words.
dickens|Matthew will come and see me at last, said Miss Havisham, sternly, when I am laid on that table.
austen|I wonder that the very pride of this Mr Darcy has not made him just to you!
dickens|I had been waiting for him to see me that I might try to assure him of my innocence.
austen|Lady Catherine was a tall, large woman, with stronglymarked features, which might once have been handsome.
austen|Complied with!
austen|I am persuaded that you can be as insincere as your neighbours, when it is necessary; but there is no reason to suppose the instrument is indifferent.
austen|At such an assembly as this it would be insupportable.
austen|Harriet submitted, though her mind could hardly separate the parts, so as to feel quite sure that her friend were not writing down a declaration of love.
austen|Emma turned away her head, divided between tears and smiles.
dickens|Thither I went, and there I found him, putting the key of his safe down his back as the clock struck.
austen|It was some comfort to him that many inquiries after himself and Miss Woodhouse for his neighbours knew that he loved to be inquired after, as well as Miss Smith, were coming in during the rest of the day; and he had the pleasure of returning for answer, that they were all very indifferentwhich, though not exactly true, for she was perfectly well, and Harriet not much otherwise, Emma would not interfere with.
austen|he, who had never yet alluded to their marriage but as a distant event.
austen|I cannot imagine that she will not be continually insulting her visitor with praise, encouragement, and offers of service; that she will not be continually detailing her magnificent intentions, from the procuring her a permanent situation to the including her in those delightful exploring parties which are to take place in the barouchelandau.
austen|When Mr Weston joined the party, however, and when the baby was fetched, there was no longer a want of subject or animationor of courage and opportunity for Frank Churchill to draw near her and say,  I have to thank you, Miss Woodhouse, for a very kind forgiving message in one of Mrs Westons letters.
dickens|Curse this iron on my sore leg!
dickens|Of late, very often.
austen|She would be respectable and happy; and Emma admitted her to be the luckiest creature in the world, to have created so steady and persevering an affection in such a man;or, if not quite the luckiest, to yield only to herself.
austen|depend upon it he will be here by three, was Mr Westons quick amendment; and so ended a most satisfactory meeting.
austen|What could she mean by it?
dickens|Put that last case to yourself very carefully.
austen|Bingley, from this time, was of course a daily visitor at Longbourn; coming frequently before breakfast, and always remaining till after supper; unless when some barbarous neighbour, who could not be enough detested, had given him an invitation to dinner which he thought himself obliged to accept.
dickens|wherein she was likewise much commended.
dickens|Ask no questions, and youll be told no lies.
austen|When those dances were over, she returned to Charlotte Lucas, and was in conversation with her, when she found herself suddenly addressed by Mr Darcy who took her so much by surprise in his application for her hand, that, without knowing what she did, she accepted him.
dickens|Not very strong, that hope, if you went soldiering!
dickens|You shall go soon, said Miss Havisham, aloud.
austen|dear, no, said her companion.
dickens|said Trabbs boy, in a sober voice; but aint he just pale though!
austen|He, who had always inspired in herself a respect which almost overcame her affection, she now saw the object of open pleasantry.
dickens|Well, retorted Drummle; hell be paid.
dickens|I explained that I was waiting to meet somebody who was coming up by coach, and I inquired after the Castle and the Aged.
austen|said he, offering his hand.
austen|I like old friends; and Miss Jane Fairfax is a very pretty sort of young lady, a very pretty and a very wellbehaved young lady indeed.
austen|Elizabeth, though expecting no less, thanked him with tears of gratitude; and all three being actuated by one spirit, everything relating to their journey was speedily settled.
dickens|Shes unfolding it.
dickens|If you have, dont expect me to befriend you when you get back to England.
austen|Where does discretion end, and avarice begin?
dickens|No doubt my health would be much better if it was otherwise, still I wouldnt change my disposition if I could.
dickens|This is idle talk.
austen|Was not this some excuse for incivility, if I was uncivil?
austen|That the Miss Lucases and the Miss Bennets should meet to talk over a ball was absolutely necessary; and the morning after the assembly brought the former to Longbourn to hear and to communicate.
austen|During their walk, it was resolved that Mr Bennets consent should be asked in the course of the evening.
dickens|You hit the nail on the head.
austen|And what are we to do for a proper partner for her?
austen|what would Frank Churchill say to her, if he were here?
austen|Now you have nothing to try for.
dickens|Mr Pip, said Wemmick, I should like just to run over with you on my fingers, if you please, the names of the various bridges up as high as Chelsea Reach.
austen|Emma spoke her pity so very kindly, that with a sudden accession of gay thought, he cried,  Ah!
dickens|Will you tell me who denounced him?
dickens|Young as I was, I believe that I dated a new admiration of Joe from that night.
austen|Yes, very soon.
dickens|A score or so of years ago, that woman was tried at the Old Bailey for murder, and was acquitted.
dickens|My thoughts, when they were wildest, never rose near the happiness that I have known with you, and that we have before us.
dickens|But, before I proceed to narrate it, and before I pass on to all the changes it involved, I must give one chapter to Estella.
dickens|Thats a fair young lady to hand to a coach in the dark, Mr Darnay!
austen|Indeed, Eliza, you will be as welcome as either of them.
austen|But I can remember nothing;not even that particular riddle which you have heard me mention; I can only recollect the first stanza; and there are several.
dickens|Kiss me, child of Evremonde.
austen|But I hope, Miss Woodhouse, that supposingthat ifstrange as it may appear.
austen|From his garden, Mr Collins would have led them round his two meadows; but the ladies, not having shoes to encounter the remains of a white frost, turned back; and while Sir William accompanied him, Charlotte took her sister and friend over the house, extremely well pleased, probably, to have the opportunity of showing it without her husbands help.
dickens|Shes all in white, he says, wi white flowers in her hair, and shes awful mad, and shes got a shroud hanging over her arm, and she says shell put it on me at five in the morning.
dickens|Something that I would like done very much.
austen|she cried, satisfied to have no one preferred to herself.
dickens|So her manner of marketing was to plump a nounsubstantive at the head of a shopkeeper without any introduction in the nature of an article, and, if it happened not to be the name of the thing she wanted, to look round for that thing, lay hold of it, and hold on by it until the bargain was concluded.
dickens|And now, because my mind was not confused enough before, I complicated its confusion fifty thousandfold, by having states and seasons when I was clear that Biddy was immeasurably better than Estella, and that the plain honest working life to which I was born had nothing in it to be ashamed of, but offered me sufficient means of selfrespect and happiness.
dickens|It was the last day of the year.
dickens|By whom?
dickens|Is there any particular and special reason for your being unable to do either?
dickens|I was looking at her with pleasure and admiration, when suddenly the growl swelled into a roar again, and a frightful bumping noise was heard above, as if a giant with a wooden leg were trying to bore it through the ceiling to come at us.
austen|This was a sad omen of what her mothers behaviour to the gentleman himself might be; and Elizabeth found that, though in the certain possession of his warmest affection, and secure of her relations consent, there was still something to be wished for.
austen|Did it, said he, did it soon make you think better of me?
austen|And woman, lovely woman, reigns alone.
austen|This is great news, indeed.
dickens|I may use that freedom with your name?
dickens|It was very small, very dark, very ugly, very incommodious.
dickens|Bad taste, said Herbert, laughing, but a fact.
dickens|You call me a lucky fellow.
dickens|Give him to drink, my wife!
austen|Wrapt up in a cloak of politeness, she seemed determined to hazard nothing.
austen|The muffin last nightif it had been handed round once, I think it would have been enough.
dickens|The old Battery out on the marshes was our place of study, and a broken slate and a short piece of slatepencil were our educational implements to which Joe always added a pipe of tobacco.
dickens|And then we all waved our swords and hurrahed.
dickens|He tilted me again.
dickens|I forgot it, he said.
austen|Reflection must be reserved for solitary hours; whenever she was alone, she gave way to it as the greatest relief; and not a day went by without a solitary walk, in which she might indulge in all the delight of unpleasant recollections.
austen|I do not know what I could imagine, but I confess that I have seldom seen a face or figure more pleasing to me than hers.
austen|Matrimony, as the origin of change, was always disagreeable; and he was by no means yet reconciled to his own daughters marrying, nor could ever speak of her but with compassion, though it had been entirely a match of affection, when he was now obliged to part with Miss Taylor too; and from his habits of gentle selfishness, and of being never able to suppose that other people could feel differently from himself, he was very much disposed to think Miss Taylor had done as sad a thing for herself as for them, and would have been a great deal happier if she had spent all the rest of her life at Hartfield.
austen|Good or bad?
austen|Her character will be fixed, and she will, at sixteen, be the most determined flirt that ever made herself or her family ridiculous; a flirt, too, in the worst and meanest degree of flirtation; without any attraction beyond youth and a tolerable person; and, from the ignorance and emptiness of her mind, wholly unable to ward off any portion of that universal contempt which her rage for admiration will excite.
dickens|He is well hidden, but at last he is unluckily found.
dickens|As to the quantity of wine, his postoffice was as indifferent and ready as any other postoffice for its quantity of letters.
austen|It was not likely, however, that any body should have equalled her in the date of the plan, as it had entered her brain during the very first evening of Harriets coming to Hartfield.
austen|Had she not, with a folly which no tongue could express, prevented her marrying the unexceptionable young man who would have made her happy and respectable in the line of life to which she ought to belongall would have been safe; none of this dreadful sequel would have been.
austen|Its effect was most extraordinary; for on first hearing it, Mrs Bennet sat quite still, and unable to utter a syllable.
austen|Not Lydia only, but all were concerned in it; and after the first exclamations of surprise and horror, Mr Gardiner promised every assistance in his power.
austen|And raising his voice still more I do not see why Miss Fairfax should not be mentioned too.
austen|I feel now as if I could think of nothing but these poor creatures all the rest of the day; and yet, who can say how soon it may all vanish from my mind?
dickens|And now before I say anything more about my father, or my fathers son, and repay confidence with confidence, I want to make myself seriously disagreeable to you for a moment,positively repulsive.
dickens|The something that I had noticed before, clicked in the mans throat again, and he turned his back.
austen|Understanding and gratification came together.
austen|While he stood, as if meaning to go, but not goingher father began his inquiries.
austen|Aye, there she comes, continued Mrs Bennet, looking as unconcerned as may be, and caring no more for us than if we were at York, provided she can have her own way.
dickens|The cut of her dress from the waist upward, both before and behind, made her figure very like a boys kite; and I might have pronounced her gown a little too decidedly orange, and her gloves a little too intensely green.
dickens|Mr Wopsles greataunt kept an evening school in the village; that is to say, she was a ridiculous old woman of limited means and unlimited infirmity, who used to go to sleep from six to seven every evening, in the society of youth who paid two pence per week each, for the improving opportunity of seeing her do it.
austen|Those who knew any thing about it, must have felt the difference.
dickens|Very distant?
dickens|And your sister, he resumed, after a little steady eating, which had the honor of bringing you up by hand!
dickens|I think youre another.
dickens|said I.
austen|Very likely.
dickens|You dont know?
austen|She was forced to speak, and to speak cheerfully too.
dickens|I know you.
austen|But, to be sure, the good lady who showed us his house did give him a most flaming character!
dickens|Which her name, said Joe, gravely, aint Estavisham, Pip, unless she have been rechrisened.
dickens|I reminded him of it when I bought the fowl, and I said, Pick us out a good one, old Briton, because if we had chosen to keep you in the box another day or two, we could easily have done it.
dickens|Oh, Carton, Carton, dear Carton!
austen|Five daughters brought up at home without a governess!
austen|Ah!
austen|At this moment Mr Weston appeared at a little distance from the window, evidently on the watch.
dickens|Certain small packets were made and given to him.
austen|You forget that I have made no answer.
austen|Indeed!
austen|She saw instantly that her cousins manners were not altered by his marriage; his formal civility was just what it had been, and he detained her some minutes at the gate to hear and satisfy his inquiries after all her family.
dickens|No, said I.
austen|She is grown so brown and coarse!
austen|Jane had spent an evening at Hartfield with her grandmother and aunt, and every thing was relapsing much into its usual state.
dickens|I assure you, returned Mr Stryver, in the friendliest way, that I am sorry for it on your account, and sorry for it on the poor fathers account.
austen|One might guess twenty things without guessing exactly the right; but I am sure there must be a particular cause for her chusing to come to Highbury instead of going with the Campbells to Ireland.
austen|I never saw such a long chin in my life.
dickens|All this while, Defarge, with his pipe in his mouth, walked up and down, complacently admiring, but never interfering; in which condition, indeed, as to the business and his domestic affairs, he walked up and down through life.
austen|She has only one daughter, the heiress of Rosings, and of very extensive property.
dickens|In brief, Joe thought that if I thought well of it, he thought well of it.
austen|The day approached, the day arrived; and after a morning of some anxious watching, Frank Churchill, in all the certainty of his own self, reached Randalls before dinner, and every thing was safe.
dickens|As its silent track in the water disappeared, the prayer that had broken up out of his heart for a merciful consideration of all his poor blindnesses and errors, ended in the words, I am the resurrection and the life.
austen|I have it notbut I know how to prize and respect it.
austen|His daughters request, for such it might be considered, of being admitted into her family again before she set off for the North, received at first an absolute negative.
dickens|Then, I began to go out as for training and practice sometimes alone, sometimes with Herbert.
dickens|She drew a pitcher of beer from the cask for the soldiers, and invited the sergeant to take a glass of brandy.
dickens|Its only that.
dickens|Had he come on board alone?
dickens|These had been oiled and oiled, until the two tall candles on the table in the middle of the room were gloomily reflected on every leaf; as if they were buried, in deep graves of black mahogany, and no light to speak of could be expected from them until they were dug out.
austen|A glance or two between him and his wife, convinced him that all was as right as this speech proclaimed; and its happy effect on his spirits was immediate.
austen|Most willingly.
dickens|I am the sworn servant of both, against you.
dickens|Therefore we had sat, feeling keenly for him, but laughing, nevertheless, from ear to ear.
austen|But I live out of the world, and am often astonished at what I hear.
austen|Lizzy, said he, what are you doing?
dickens|On opening the outer door of our chambers with my key, I found a letter in the box, directed to me; a very dirty letter, though not illwritten.
austen|Is not she very charming?
austen|Happily it was not necessary to speak.
dickens|In a building at the back, attainable by a courtyard where a planetree rustled its green leaves, churchorgans claimed to be made, and silver to be chased, and likewise gold to be beaten by some mysterious giant who had a golden arm starting out of the wall of the front hallas if he had beaten himself precious, and menaced a similar conversion of all visitors.
dickens|Now, said Wemmick, questioning being over, which he emphasized and repeated for my guidance, I come to what I did, after hearing what I heard.
austen|She was sorry, very sorry.
dickens|He loved his country, and couldnt bear it, and had given information.
dickens|One can depart.
austen|Jane shook her head.
dickens|On this day of the year, long before you were born, this heap of decay, stabbing with her crutched stick at the pile of cobwebs on the table, but not touching it, was brought here.
austen|she was more and more convinced that Mrs Weston was quite mistaken in that surmise.
austen|Elizabeth was eager with her thanks and assurances of happiness.
dickens|A more remarkable face in its quiet, resolute, and guarded struggle with an unseen assailant, was not to be beheld in all the wide dominions of sleep, that night.
austen|His recollection of Harriet, and the words which clothed it, the beautiful little friend, suggested to her the idea of Harriets succeeding her in his affections.
dickens|Released yesterday.
dickens|repeated the old gentleman, Barsad?
austen|If the talking aunt had taken me quite by surprize, it must have been the death of me.
dickens|He has no curiosity or care for the scene about him, and always speaks to the girl.
dickens|It is all the same, said the spy, airily, but discomfited too good day!
dickens|Let them all lean upon him.
austen|By his style, I should imagine it just settled.
austen|The part which I acted is now to be explained.
dickens|I believe it was settled you should meet me?
austen|There, not to be vulgar, was distinction, and merit.
austen|This is delightful indeed!
dickens|He mentioned to me as a secret, that he is courting a young lady who has, as no doubt you are aware, a bedridden Pa.
dickens|What is easier, you know?
dickens|He pressed the workworn, hungerworn young fingers, and touched his lips.
dickens|It lay back on the pillow of Monsieur the Marquis.
austen|Mrs Weston undertakes to direct the whole.
dickens|About.
dickens|And so, under a short grove of feebler and feebler overswinging lamps, out under the great grove of stars.
dickens|My sister was never left alone now; but Joe more than readily undertook the care of her on that Sunday afternoon, and Biddy and I went out together.
dickens|No, said he, not particularly.
austen|He owns it himself without disguise.
austen|I hope whenever poor Isabellas little ones have the measles, she will send for Perry.
austen|He does not exactly recollect the circumstances, though he has heard them from Mr Darcy more than once, but he believes that it was left to him conditionally only.
dickens|Why, he is a common laboring boy!
austen|I cannot make a question, or listen to a question about that.
dickens|We want wine, among the rest.
dickens|Now, I told you so, said the spy, casting a reproachful look at his sister; if any trouble comes of this, its your doing.
dickens|It was a good thing that he had touched this point, for it put into my mind what I might not otherwise have thought of until too late,that he need never know how his hopes of enriching me had perished.
dickens|But it stands to reason, his time being valuable, that he wont be longer than he can help.
austen|We allowed unnecessary room.
austen|Never, even in the company of his dear friends at Netherfield, or his dignified relations at Rosings, had she seen him so desirous to please, so free from selfconsequence or unbending reserve, as now, when no importance could result from the success of his endeavours, and when even the acquaintance of those to whom his attentions were addressed would draw down the ridicule and censure of the ladies both of Netherfield and Rosings.
dickens|I further mentioned that as I had been brought up a blacksmith in a country place, and knew very little of the ways of politeness, I would take it as a great kindness in him if he would give me a hint whenever he saw me at a loss or going wrong.
austen|You only mean, that he intends it.
austen|I will not be in a hurry to believe myself his first object.
austen|Are you quite sure that you feel what you ought to do?
austen|You had much better dance.
dickens|You, Lucie?
dickens|On examination it was pronounced that she had received serious hurts, but that they of themselves were far from hopeless; the danger lay mainly in the nervous shock.
austen|Oh!
austen|No!
dickens|I am thankful!
dickens|When I have executed this little commission, I shall, perhaps, accept Tellsons proposal to retire and live at my ease.
austen|The village of Longbourn was only one mile from Meryton; a most convenient distance for the young ladies, who were usually tempted thither three or four times a week, to pay their duty to their aunt and to a milliners shop just over the way.
austen|William Larkins mentioned it here.
austen|Mr Bennet replied that he had not.
dickens|Come, come, said Estella, smiling delightfully, you must not expect me to go to school to you; I must talk in my own way.
dickens|We know now, what a struggle you made of old.
dickens|But, it beckoned him back in his sleep, and showed itself in shining forms.
austen|Emma spared no exertions to maintain this happier flow of ideas, and hoped, by the help of backgammon, to get her father tolerably through the evening, and be attacked by no regrets but her own.
dickens|Very superior indeed.
austen|cried Emma; at that rate, what will become of her?
dickens|For, Clara has no mother of her own, Handel, and no relation in the world but old Gruffandgrim.
austen|As it was certain, however, that somebody was coming, Bingley instantly prevailed on Miss Bennet to avoid the confinement of such an intrusion, and walk away with him into the shrubbery.
austen|A most deplorable want of complexion.
austen|With this treatment, Mr Woodhouse was soon composed enough for talking as usual.
austen|I am glad you think so; and the good hands, I hope, may not be wanting.
austen|In making me the offer, you must have satisfied the delicacy of your feelings with regard to my family, and may take possession of Longbourn estate whenever it falls, without any selfreproach.
dickens|I am cool now, said Monsieur the Marquis, and may go to bed.
dickens|The contention came, after all, to this;the secret was such an old one now, had so grown into me and become a part of myself, that I could not tear it away.
austen|Is it not so, Mrs Bennet?
austen|You must all endeavour to comprehend the exact nature of my situation when I first arrived at Randalls; you must consider me as having a secret which was to be kept at all hazards.
dickens|said Mr Pumblechook, in the way of a compassionate adjuration.
dickens|!
dickens|But I thought with dread that it was flowing towards Magwitch, and that any black mark on its surface might be his pursuers, going swiftly, silently, and surely, to take him.
austen|This he considered sufficient encouragement; and the avowal of all that he felt, and had long felt for her, immediately followed.
dickens|exclaimed Miss Havisham.
dickens|This I did accurately, with the reservation just mentioned; and I told him how Wemmick had heard, in Newgate prison whether from officers or prisoners I could not say, that he was under some suspicion, and that my chambers had been watched; how Wemmick had recommended his keeping close for a time, and my keeping away from him; and what Wemmick had said about getting him abroad.
dickens|The corner being out of the way of the idle and curious, and the preparations having been very simple and few, the Doctor, Mr Lorry, and Miss Pross, were left quite alone.
austen|But now, poor girl, her peace is cut up for some time.
austen|Nobody ever did think well of the Churchills, I fancy, observed Mr John Knightley coolly.
dickens|cried Mr Pocket, in an outbreak of desolate desperation.
austen|It was likely to be as untainted, perhaps, as the blood of many a gentleman but what a connexion had she been preparing for Mr Knightleyor for the Churchillsor even for Mr Elton!
dickens|For an hour or more, I remained too stunned to think; and it was not until I began to think, that I began fully to know how wrecked I was, and how the ship in which I had sailed was gone to pieces.
dickens|All this time it was incessantly hopping on behind and gaining on him, so that when the boy got to his own door he had reason for being half dead.
austen|and upon its beginning to rain, Emma was obliged to expect that the weather would be detaining her at Mrs Goddards, and that the intelligence would undoubtedly rush upon her without preparation.
austen|Had she refused, I should have gone mad.
dickens|Then they were all formally doomed, and some of them were supported out, and some of them sauntered out with a haggard look of bravery, and a few nodded to the gallery, and two or three shook hands, and others went out chewing the fragments of herb they had taken from the sweet herbs lying about.
dickens|said Carton, looking up, as he kneeled on one knee beside the insensible figure, putting the paper in the breast is your hazard very great?
dickens|Besides that, his loss of himself grew out of it.
dickens|The Doctor sat with his face turned away, and his eyes bent on the ground.
austen|The journey would moreover give her a peep at Jane; and, in short, as the time drew near, she would have been very sorry for any delay.
dickens|On the present occasion, though I was hungry, I dared not eat my slice.
dickens|Now, if I could have believed that she favored Drummle with any idea of making memewretched, I should have been in better heart about it; but in that habitual way of hers, she put me so entirely out of the question, that I could believe nothing of the kind.
austen|I was this moment telling Jane, I thought you would begin to be impatient for tidings of us.
dickens|After grasping the Doctors hand, as he stood victorious and proud before him; after grasping the hand of Mr Lorry, who came panting in breathless from his struggle against the waterspout of the Carmagnole; after kissing little Lucie, who was lifted up to clasp her arms round his neck; and after embracing the ever zealous and faithful Pross who lifted her; he took his wife in his arms, and carried her up to their rooms.
austen|Elizabeth, who knew this to be levelled at Mr Darcy, was in such misery of shame, that she could hardly keep her seat.
dickens|When this horrible din had lasted a certain time, it mechanically awoke Mr Wopsles greataunt, who staggered at a boy fortuitously, and pulled his ears.
dickens|Biddy, I exclaimed, impatiently, I am not at all happy as I am.
dickens|Startop could make out, after a few minutes, which steamer was first, and gave me the word Hamburg, in a low voice, as we sat face to face.
austen|Who are your uncles and aunts?
dickens|For, of course my being disabled could now be no longer kept out of view.
dickens|He took my chin in his large hand and turned up my face to have a look at me by the light of the candle.
dickens|Sometimes the broken reply was, Wait!
dickens|I would come with you if I could; but indeed I am quite unable.
dickens|She is dead, said I.
austen|Emma pondered a moment, and then replied, I will not pretend not to understand you; and to give you all the relief in my power, be assured that no such effect has followed his attentions to me, as you are apprehensive of.
austen|How can Emma imagine she has any thing to learn herself, while Harriet is presenting such a delightful inferiority?
austen|They would be estimated very differently by others as well as myself; Mr Martin may be the richest of the two, but he is undoubtedly her inferior as to rank in society.
austen|I assure you that I have heard the news with the warmest interest and satisfaction.
dickens|The soldiers swords are sharpened there, said Mr Lorry.
dickens|And as my extreme weakness prevented me from getting up and going to him, I lay there, penitently whispering, O God bless him!
dickens|Confided to the cares of Messrs.
austen|There, papa!
austen|But Lady Catherine seemed gratified by their excessive admiration, and gave most gracious smiles, especially when any dish on the table proved a novelty to them.
austen|But every thing of that kind, said Emma, will soon be in so regular a train  Well, said Mrs Elton, laughing, we shall see.
dickens|For an instant, the Doctor even had his two hands at his ears; for another instant, even had his two hands laid on Darnays lips.
austen|Their affectionate mother shared all their grief; she remembered what she had herself endured on a similar occasion, fiveandtwenty years ago.
austen|Oh!
dickens|After I have crossed this bridge, I hoist it upsoand cut off the communication.
austen|She even wept over the idea of it, as a sin of thought.
dickens|I am going up to my guardian in London, said I, casually drawing some guineas out of my pocket and looking at them; and I want a fashionable suit of clothes to go in.
dickens|the spy irresolutely asked.
austen|and it may be a very fortunate circumstance for him, for Frank, I mean, that he should have attached himself to a girl of such steadiness of character and good judgment as I have always given her credit forand still am disposed to give her credit for, in spite of this one great deviation from the strict rule of right.
dickens|I fancied, as I looked at her, that I slipped hopelessly back into the coarse and common boy again.
austen|How does Miss Smith do?
dickens|It is very hard for me to hear her spoken of in that tone of yours, Charles Darnay.
dickens|Let me speak of it in its place.
dickens|I doubt, sir, returned the nephew, whether, if it had carried me to the utmost brink of death, you would have cared to stop me there.
dickens|The lamps across his streets had a portentously elastic swing with them.
austen|Thank you, said Lydia, for if you did, I should certainly tell you all, and then Wickham would be angry.
dickens|Well, sir!
austen|May we take my uncles letter to read to her?
austen|As they passed into other rooms these objects were taking different positions; but from every window there were beauties to be seen.
austen|The Churchills are very likely in fault, said Mr Knightley, coolly; but I dare say he might come if he would.
austen|said she, I get quite anxious about you.
austen|Oh!
dickens|If he had given any utterance to his, and they were prophetic, they would have been these  I see Barsad, and Cly, Defarge, The Vengeance, the Juryman, the Judge, long ranks of the new oppressors who have risen on the destruction of the old, perishing by this retributive instrument, before it shall cease out of its present use.
austen|There he was, among the standersby, where he ought not to be; he ought to be dancing,not classing himself with the husbands, and fathers, and whistplayers, who were pretending to feel an interest in the dance till their rubbers were made up,so young as he looked!
austen|Her introductions and recommendations must all wait, and every projected party be still only talked of.
dickens|Wretched old sinner of more than threescore years and ten, if he had never known it yet, he would have known it in his heart of hearts if he could have heard the answering cry.
austen|Of very important, very recordable events, it was not more productive than such meetings usually are.
austen|Respect, esteem, and confidence had vanished for ever; and all his views of domestic happiness were overthrown.
austen|I wish our opinions were the same.
austen|If you were aware, said Elizabeth, of the very great disadvantage to us all which must arise from the public notice of Lydias unguarded and imprudent mannernay, which has already arisen from it, I am sure you would judge differently in the affair.
dickens|I told you youd get on.
dickens|Miss Manette, then!
dickens|Of what?
dickens|Its stewed up together, and taken hot, and its a nice thing for the gout, I should think!
dickens|So, then!
dickens|I said, I have seen her.
austen|But you blame me for having spoken so warmly of Wickham?
dickens|Yes, it was too strong, sir,but I dont care.
austen|Mr Elton was called out of the room before tea, old John Abdys son wanted to speak with him.
austen|Jane was not happy.
dickens|A window was raised, and a clear voice demanded What name?
austen|no, there is but one.
austen|She is unfortunately of a sickly constitution, which has prevented her from making that progress in many accomplishments which she could not have otherwise failed of, as I am informed by the lady who superintended her education, and who still resides with them.
austen|I take up my pen again to do what I have just told you I would not; but circumstances are such that I cannot help earnestly begging you all to come here as soon as possible.
austen|He thought much of the evils of the journey for her, and not a little of the fatigues of his own horses and coachman who were to bring some of the party the last half of the way; but his alarms were needless; the sixteen miles being happily accomplished, and Mr and Mrs John Knightley, their five children, and a competent number of nurserymaids, all reaching Hartfield in safety.
dickens|had been your teacher at the present time, she thinks she knows what lesson she would set.
austen|I need not tell you what is to be done.
dickens|Its not worth discussing.
dickens|And as to being common, I dont make it out at all clear.
dickens|In the midst of the action he went astray, and, with another deep sigh, fell to work at his shoemaking.
austen|You may well be amazed, returned Mrs Weston, still averting her eyes, and talking on with eagerness, that Emma might have time to recover You may well be amazed.
dickens|I soon fell asleep before Wemmicks fire, and the Aged and I enjoyed one anothers society by falling asleep before it more or less all day.
dickens|He returned no reply, but it was evident that he heard what was said, and that he thought about it, however confusedly.
dickens|I hope, Mr Pip, you will excuse my sending round.
austen|Their visit did not continue long after the question and answer above mentioned; and while Mr Darcy was attending them to their carriage Miss Bingley was venting her feelings in criticisms on Elizabeths person, behaviour, and dress.
dickens|But you must be fatigued.
dickens|However, the only thing to be done being to knock at the door, I knocked, and was told from within to enter.
dickens|We always used that name for marshes, in our country.
dickens|said Mr Jaggers.
dickens|And air you a going to Joseph?
dickens|What then, my gentle sister?
austen|Though I shall always say he used my daughter extremely ill; and if I was her, I would not have put up with it.
austen|If you prefer Mr Martin to every other person; if you think him the most agreeable man you have ever been in company with, why should you hesitate?
dickens|repeated Carton, musing, and not appearing to notice him at all, though he echoed his word.
austen|We all know the difference between the pronouns he or she and thou, the plainest spoken amongst us; we all feel the influence of a something beyond common civility in our personal intercourse with each othera something more early implanted.
austen|He must have had a wet ride.
dickens|Ten oclock, sir, said the man at the tavern, whom he had charged to wake himten oclock, sir.
dickens|While he was there, my sister had been seen standing at the kitchen door, and had exchanged Good Night with a farmlaborer going home.
austen|The housekeeper declared she knew nothing of my being expected.
dickens|Does it strike too cold on that sensitive place?
austen|In no other light could you have been more to me than a common acquaintance.
austen|no.
dickens|Yet, no one could have looked at him twice, without looking again even though the opportunity of observation had not extended to the mournful cadence of his low grave voice, and to the abstraction that overclouded him fitfully, without any apparent reason.
dickens|Or you to me, says Sydney Carton.
dickens|Monsieur Gabelle had held the impoverished and involved estate on written instructions, to spare the people, to give them what little there was to givesuch fuel as the heavy creditors would let them have in the winter, and such produce as could be saved from the same grip in the summerand no doubt he had put the fact in plea and proof, for his own safety, so that it could not but appear now.
dickens|Well!
dickens|This, from Jacques.
austen|So many clever riddles as there used to be when he was younghe wondered he could not remember them!
austen|Your own heart, your own conscience, must tell you why I come.
austen|She went to Mrs Goddards accordingly the very next day, to undergo the necessary penance of communication; and a severe one it was.
dickens|On the way home, if I had been in a humor for talking, the talk must have been all on my side, for Mr Wopsle parted from us at the door of the Jolly Bargemen, and Joe went all the way home with his mouth wide open, to rinse the rum out with as much air as possible.
dickens|That is his power over you as long as he remains in England, and that would be his reckless course if you forsook him.
austen|I am concerned to hear of it.
dickens|I had hold of Joes hand now, and Joe carried one of the torches.
dickens|I took it from his hand, but laid it on the table.
austen|But you will be ready to say, what was your hope in doing this?
austen|He has been here this halfhour, and master has had a letter.
dickens|But I dont know how long the rafters may hold.
austen|The effect was immediate.
austen|Within doors there was Lady Catherine, books, and a billiardtable, but gentlemen cannot always be within doors; and in the nearness of the Parsonage, or the pleasantness of the walk to it, or of the people who lived in it, the two cousins found a temptation from this period of walking thither almost every day.
dickens|I could have done you no harm, if you had done yourself none.
austen|Mrs Elton, I suppose, has been the person to whom Miss Fairfax owes  Yes, our good Mrs Elton.
dickens|I didnt go to do it, Mr Wemmick.
austen|Besides, if she does play so very well, you know, it is no more than she is obliged to do, because she will have to teach.
dickens|No dinner?
austen|It was drawn at the same time as the otherabout eight years ago.
austen|Even this conquest would appear valuable in her eyes.
austen|This is my advice.
austen|John enters like a brother into my happiness, continued Mr Knightley, but he is no complimenter; and though I well know him to have, likewise, a most brotherly affection for you, he is so far from making flourishes, that any other young woman might think him rather cool in her praise.
austen|Only think!
dickens|He says, and gives it out publicly, I want to see the man wholl rob me.
dickens|He stood, half turned from the prisoner, lounging with his elbow against the bar.
dickens|There is great force in that.
austen|There, the surprize was not softened by any satisfaction.
austen|The rest of his letter is only about his dear Charlottes situation, and his expectation of a young olivebranch.
dickens|Is the teaboard still there, Lucie?
austen|She then broke the lace off short, and dexterously throwing it into a ditch, was presently obliged to entreat them to stop, and acknowledged her inability to put herself to rights so as to be able to walk home in tolerable comfort.
dickens|At the gallows and the wheelthe axe was a rarityMonsieur Paris, as it was the episcopal mode among his brother Professors of the provinces, Monsieur Orleans, and the rest, to call him, presided in this dainty dress.
austen|He wrote a letter to poor Mrs Weston, to congratulate her, and a very proper, handsome letter it was.
dickens|Keep still!
austen|More than an attachment, indeed, resumed Mrs Weston; an engagementa positive engagement.
dickens|At nine oclock every night, Greenwich time, said Wemmick, the gun fires.
austen|Mrs Cole had many to agree with her; every body who spoke on the subject was equally convinced that it must come from Colonel Campbell, and equally rejoiced that such a present had been made; and there were enough ready to speak to allow Emma to think her own way, and still listen to Mrs Cole.
austen|That tall, proud man.
dickens|Their pieces were cocked and levelled when we all ran in.
dickens|Still more, when his mourning at is unfortunately made so small as that the weight of the black feathers brings it off, try to keep it on how you may.
austen|He was here only a quarter of an hour, and in a state of agitation which did not allow the full use even of the time he could staybut that there had been misunderstandings he decidedly said.
dickens|He would call at Barnards Hotel Tuesday morning at nine oclock, when if not agreeable please leave word.
dickens|I thank you ten thousand times.
austen|It is what everybody says.
austen|You do not know it I dare say, but two or three years ago I had a great passion for taking likenesses, and attempted several of my friends, and was thought to have a tolerable eye in general.
dickens|Yes.
austen|This gallantry was not much to the taste of some of his hearers; but Mrs Bennet, who quarreled with no compliments, answered most readily.
dickens|Where?
austen|But I am very much, and without being at all ashamed of it.
dickens|The family honour, sir, is safe from me in this country.
dickens|Mr Cruncher reposed under a patchwork counterpane, like a Harlequin at home.
dickens|Dont break cover too soon.
austen|She was then proceeding to all the particulars of calico, muslin, and cambric, and would shortly have dictated some very plentiful orders, had not Jane, though with some difficulty, persuaded her to wait till her father was at leisure to be consulted.
dickens|I shall sink lower, and be worse.
austen|A charming place, undoubtedly.
austen|If you love Mr Darcy half as well as I do my dear Wickham, you must be very happy.
dickens|I want to know, said I, and particularly, Herbert, whether he told you when this happened?
austen|Such as vanity and pride.
dickens|Pockethandkerchiefs out, all!
dickens|Well, said Joe, to tell you the truth, I aint much in the habit of drinking at anybodys expense but my own.
austen|Isabella and Emma, I think, do write very much alike.
austen|Mrs Bennet rang the bell, and Miss Elizabeth was summoned to the library.
dickens|I find it wery hard to hold that young man off of your inside.
dickens|Assuredly, replied Herbert.
dickens|His surname was Cruncher, and on the youthful occasion of his renouncing by proxy the works of darkness, in the easterly parish church of Hounsditch, he had received the added appellation of Jerry.
dickens|Even I got some.
austen|I dare say he often hears worse things said than I am going to say.
dickens|Anything else?
dickens|That done, extricate yourself, in Heavens name, and well see it out together, dear old boy.
dickens|Passing on into the front courtyard, I hesitated whether to call the woman to let me out at the locked gate of which she had the key, or first to go upstairs and assure myself that Miss Havisham was as safe and well as I had left her.
austen|The elder Miss Bennets alone were still able to eat, drink, and sleep, and pursue the usual course of their employments.
dickens|Good day.
dickens|There being plenty of gravy today, Joe spooned into my plate, at this point, about half a pint.
austen|I am afraid he has been very imprudent, and has deserved to lose Mr Darcys regard.
dickens|Lastly, Ophelia was a prey to such slow musical madness, that when, in course of time, she had taken off her white muslin scarf, folded it up, and buried it, a sulky man who had been long cooling his impatient nose against an iron bar in the front row of the gallery, growled, Now the babys put to bed lets have supper!
austen|They went to the library, therefore, and asked their father whether he would not wish them to make it known to her.
austen|She had never been admitted before to be seriously ill.
dickens|Good in you!
dickens|You had better come to my house, said the man.
dickens|The prison of La Force was a gloomy prison, dark and filthy, and with a horrible smell of foul sleep in it.
austen|There could be no harm in a scheme, a mere passive scheme.
austen|The officers of the shire were in general a very creditable, gentlemanlike set, and the best of them were of the present party; but Mr Wickham was as far beyond them all in person, countenance, air, and walk, as they were superior to the broadfaced, stuffy uncle Phillips, breathing port wine, who followed them into the room.
dickens|The only independent one among them, he warned her that she was doing too much for this man, and was placing herself too unreservedly in his power.
austen|It was necessary to laugh, when she would rather have cried.
dickens|But she answered at last, and her light came along the dark passage like a star.
austen|But as Elizabeth could not receive comfort from any such expectation, she made no answer.
dickens|Didnt you hear the cannon last night?
dickens|Come, I only want one word from you.
dickens|Raymond is a witness what ginger and sal volatile I am obliged to take in the night.
austen|This is just what Perry said.
dickens|My mind, with inconceivable rapidity followed out all the consequences of such a death.
dickens|He regarded me with a look of affection that made him almost abhorrent to me again, though I had felt great pity for him.
austen|I could not bear to have Henry supplanted.
dickens|But when, in the clearer light of next morning, I began to reconsider the matter and to hear it discussed around me on all sides, I took another view of the case, which was more reasonable.
dickens|True, he replied.
austen|They were not the only objects of Mr Collinss admiration.
austen|He rode down for a couple of hours; he could not yet do more; but as he came from Randalls immediately to Hartfield, she could then exercise all her quick observation, and speedily determine how he was influenced, and how she must act.
dickens|Spies!
austen|Yesa good deal nearer.
dickens|Your papers, travellers!
austen|Harriet would have been a better match.
austen|You are each of you so complying, that nothing will ever be resolved on; so easy, that every servant will cheat you; and so generous, that you will always exceed your income.
austen|Miss Woodhouse calls me the child of good fortune.
austen|But hush!
dickens|It was an odd sensation to see his very familiar face established quite at home in that very unfamiliar room and region; and I found myself looking at him, much as I looked at the cornercupboard with the glass and china, the shells upon the chimneypiece, and the colored engravings on the wall, representing the death of Captain Cook, a shiplaunch, and his Majesty King George the Third in a state coachmans wig, leatherbreeches, and topboots, on the terrace at Windsor.
austen|She could not speak.
austen|His attachment excited gratitude, his general character respect; but she could not approve him; nor could she for a moment repent her refusal, or feel the slightest inclination ever to see him again.
dickens|As to the where and how of living, dear boy, give me your own opinions on it.
dickens|But, the same consideration that suggested him, repudiated him; he lived in the most violent Quarter, and doubtless was influential there, and deep in its dangerous workings.
austen|I never meant to deceive you, but my spirits might often lead me wrong.
austen|I am always glad to see him.
dickens|It was then that I knew her condition to be that of one in whom the first expectations of being a mother have arisen; and it was then that I lost the little hope I had had of her.
austen|thought Emma.
austen|heres Miss Woodhouse.
dickens|I understand the feeling!
austen|And so she is to come to us next Friday or Saturday, and the Campbells leave town in their way to Holyhead the Monday followingas you will find from Janes letter.
austen|It will save me a world of trouble and economy.
dickens|Yaha!
dickens|He says you will understand.
austen|He has always something to say to everybody.
austen|Mr Bingley will not be detained in London by them.
dickens|It was additionally disconcerting to have madame knitting all the way there, in a public conveyance; it was additionally disconcerting yet, to have madame in the crowd in the afternoon, still with her knitting in her hands as the crowd waited to see the carriage of the King and Queen.
dickens|Jerry, Jerry, Jerry!
dickens|If I might embrace him once!
dickens|Hurry, hurry!
dickens|Can I turn it to no good account for yourself, Mr Carton?
austen|There is nothing he would not do for her.
austen|Oh, said I, Patty do not come with your bad news to me.
austen|I must buy something at Fords.
dickens|I had in vain tried everything producible that began with a T, from tar to toast and tub.
austen|His father only called him a coxcomb, and thought it a very good story; but that Mrs Weston did not like it, was clear enough, by her passing it over as quickly as possible, and making no other comment than that all young people would have their little whims.
dickens|Proceeding into the Castle again, we found the Aged heating the poker, with expectant eyes, as a preliminary to the performance of this great nightly ceremony.
austen|After many pauses and many trials of other subjects, Elizabeth could not help reverting once more to the first, and saying  I am astonished at his intimacy with Mr Bingley!
dickens|The darkness deepened and deepened, and they both lay quiet, until a light gleamed through the chinks in the wall.
dickens|said Mr Jaggers; how much?
dickens|If Compeyson were alive and should discover his return, I could hardly doubt the consequence.
dickens|His manner of bearing his poverty, too, exactly corresponded to his manner of bearing that defeat.
dickens|Then Joe unlocked the door and picked up my sister, who had dropped insensible at the window but who had seen the fight first, I think, and who was carried into the house and laid down, and who was recommended to revive, and would do nothing but struggle and clench her hands in Joes hair.
dickens|She had nestled down with him, that his head might lie upon her arm; and her hair drooping over him curtained him from the light.
dickens|O pity us, kind Heaven, and help us!
austen|Emma agreed to it, and with a blush of sensibility on Harriets account, which she could not give any sincere explanation of.
dickens|On the first floor, said Herbert.
dickens|My dear young friend, said Mr Pumblechook; if you will allow me to call you so  I murmured Certainly, and Mr Pumblechook took me by both hands again, and communicated a movement to his waistcoat, which had an emotional appearance, though it was rather low down, My dear young friend, rely upon my doing my little all in your absence, by keeping the fact before the mind of Joseph.
austen|Very true.
austen|It was kindly said, and very far from giving offence.
dickens|In the hour of my death, I shall hold sacred the one good remembranceand shall thank and bless you for itthat my last avowal of myself was made to you, and that my name, and faults, and miseries were gently carried in your heart.
dickens|Orlick not unnaturally answered, Well?
dickens|You are engaged at three oclock; you are going to see the batch of today executed.
austen|Maria thought speaking out of the question, and the gentlemen did nothing but eat and admire.
dickens|Dont be afraid of my being a blessing to him, said Estella; I shall not be that.
dickens|Fantastic failures of journeys occupied me until the day dawned and the birds were singing.
dickens|He was very much pleased by my asking if I might sleep in my own little room, and I was pleased too; for I felt that I had done rather a great thing in making the request.
austen|It is fit that the fortune should be on his side, for I think the merit will be all on hers.
dickens|He was still sweeping when I came out into the shop with Mr Trabb, and he knocked the broom against all possible corners and obstacles, to express as I understood it equality with any blacksmith, alive or dead.
austen|, but no one can throw any blame on them.
dickens|One word, the Doctor entreated.
dickens|Her father considered a little before he answered  You have seen Mr Carton here, yourself.
austen|She grew absolutely ashamed of herself.
dickens|He had no opportunity of saying, or so much as thinking, anything else, until he was clear of the Old Bailey; for, the crowd came pouring out with a vehemence that nearly took him off his legs, and a loud buzz swept into the street as if the baffled blueflies were dispersing in search of other carrion.
dickens|My duty is to my country and the People.
austen|Jane Fairfax was very elegant, remarkably elegant; and she had herself the highest value for elegance.
austen|He said, from the first, it was a very good sortwhich was our great comfort; but the measles are a dreadful complaint.
austen|Your uncle!
austen|She promised Wright a receipt, and never sent it.
dickens|said he.
dickens|He greeted me with a cheerful smile on my opening my eyes, and said,  As being the last time, Pip, I thought Id foller.
austen|I was mad enough, however, to resent.
austen|And yours, he replied with a smile, is willfully to misunderstand them.
dickens|The Justices were sitting in the Town Hall near at hand, and we at once went over to have me bound apprentice to Joe in the Magisterial presence.
dickens|What then, when thats once done?
dickens|She will do very well.
austen|Did he ever give you any thing?
dickens|To have Provis for an upper lodger is quite a godsend to Mrs Whimple,  said Herbert, for of course people in general wont stand that noise.
dickens|I had no opportunity of asking her any question, until I had told the brothers she was sinking fast, and could not live another day.
dickens|Yes, sir, said I.
dickens|She pretty?
austen|When convinced on that article, Miss Bennet had nothing further to wish.
austen|I shall not commit myself by claiming more than she may chuse to allow.
dickens|What do you suppose he wants now, Handel?
dickens|said he, taking his black pipe from his mouth, and dropping his jaw as he stared at me.
dickens|This friend, I pursued, is trying to get on in commercial life, but has no money, and finds it difficult and disheartening to make a beginning.
dickens|Assuredly I did.
dickens|It is a portrait!
austen|We think she is the better for Highbury already.
dickens|Waiter!
dickens|I didnt know there had been any.
dickens|Getting near gunfire, said Wemmick then, as he laid down his pipe; its the Ageds treat.
austen|His affection was proved to have been sincere, and his conduct cleared of all blame, unless any could attach to the implicitness of his confidence in his friend.
austen|I assured him that I could not.
austen|With respect to Wickham, the travellers soon found that he was not held there in much estimation; for though the chief of his concerns with the son of his patron were imperfectly understood, it was yet a wellknown fact that, on his quitting Derbyshire, he had left many debts behind him, which Mr Darcy afterwards discharged.
dickens|Some ancient trees before the house were still cut into fashions as formal and unnatural as the hoops and wigs and stiff skirts; but their own allotted places in the great procession of the dead were not far off, and they would soon drop into them and go the silent way of the rest.
austen|Highbury, perhaps, afforded society enough?
austen|The most unaccountable business!
austen|By supposing such an affection, you make everybody acting unnaturally and wrong, and me most unhappy.
dickens|If, without disturbing him, she said, raising her hand to Mr Lorry as he stooped over them, after repeated blowings of his nose, all could be arranged for our leaving Paris at once, so that, from the very door, he could be taken away  But, consider.
dickens|Mr Jaggers nodded.
dickens|No.
austen|The listeners were amused; and Mrs Weston gave Emma a look of particular meaning.
dickens|A second man got up and went out.
austen|Miss Bingley was engrossed by Mr Darcy, her sister scarcely less so; and as for Mr Hurst, by whom Elizabeth sat, he was an indolent man, who lived only to eat, drink, and play at cards; who, when he found her to prefer a plain dish to a ragout, had nothing to say to her.
austen|After joining in general lamentations over the dreadful sequel of this event, which Elizabeth considered as all but certain, and Miss Bennet could not assert to be wholly impossible, the former continued the subject, by saying, But tell me all and everything about it which I have not already heard.
dickens|I cannot think, said Estella, raising her eyes after a silence why you should be so unreasonable when I come to see you after a separation.
dickens|This boy must be bound, out of hand.
dickens|Your appetites been touched like by your accident, said the landlord, glancing at the bandaged arm under my coat.
dickens|We were waiting, I supposed, for Mr Pocket to come out to us; at any rate we waited there, and so I had an opportunity of observing the remarkable family phenomenon that whenever any of the children strayed near Mrs Pocket in their play, they always tripped themselves up and tumbled over her,always very much to her momentary astonishment, and their own more enduring lamentation.
dickens|To Mr Lorry, the Doctor communicated under an injunction of secrecy on which he had no need to dwell, that the crowd had taken him through a scene of carnage to the prison of La Force.
dickens|We talked a good deal as we walked, and all that Biddy said seemed right.
dickens|Without doubt, said the polished uncle.
austen|She is reserved, more reserved, I think, than she used to beAnd I love an open temper.
austen|My poor mother is really ill, and keeps her room.
austen|The name makes me think of poor Isabella; for she was very near being christened Catherine after her grandmama.
austen|I hope not so.
austen|He had stayed on, however, vigorously, day after daytill this very mornings post had conveyed the history of Jane Fairfax.
dickens|By degrees, in the pauses of his quick and laboured breathing, he was heard to say  What is this?
dickens|He had loved Lucie Manette from the hour of his danger.
dickens|We pushed off again, and made what way we could.
dickens|Also to Ceylon, specially for elephants tusks.
dickens|No.
dickens|To the best of my belief, our case was in the last aspect a rather common one.
dickens|Biddy dropped her work, and looked at me.
dickens|In her other hand she had a crutchheaded stick on which she leaned, and she looked like the Witch of the place.
austen|No coffee, I thank you, for menever take coffee.
dickens|With such scraps tossing and rolling upward from the depths of his mind, the prisoner walked faster and faster, obstinately counting and counting; and the roar of the city changed to this extentthat it still rolled in like muffled drums, but with the wail of voices that he knew, in the swell that rose above them.
austen|Jamess had made him courteous.
dickens|said Mr Jaggers.
austen|If, in the explanation of them, which is due to myself, I am under the necessity of relating feelings which may be offensive to yours, I can only say that I am sorry.
austen|Why, to own the truth, I am afraid you are rather thrown away, and that with every disposition to bear, there will be nothing to be borne.
dickens|During all that time Lucie was never sure, from hour to hour, but that the Guillotine would strike off her husbands head next day.
dickens|He could write of them, besides, in sound English, and render them into sound English.
austen|But your arts and allurements may, in a moment of infatuation, have made him forget what he owes to himself and to all his family.
austen|Well, Miss Woodhouse, said Harriet, when they had quitted the house, and after waiting in vain for her friend to begin; Well, Miss Woodhouse, with a gentle sigh, what do you think of her?
dickens|As to the first letter of that lawyers name now.
dickens|But yes, yes, she would call it so!
dickens|In the kings name, all of you!
dickens|I tried to rest him on the arm I could use, in any easy position; but it was dreadful to think that I could not be sorry at heart for his being badly hurt, since it was unquestionably best that he should die.
austen|It is fortunate, then, that they fall to my lot instead of yours.
dickens|if you come to prosperous, you are prosperous, said Mr Lorry.
dickens|As the time wore on, an impression settled heavily upon me that Estella was married.
austen|Harriet seemed ready to worship her friend for a sentence so satisfactory; and Emma was only saved from raptures and fondness, which at that moment would have been dreadful penance, by the sound of her fathers footsteps.
austen|I wonder what will become of her!
dickens|His being my lawyer, and his being the lawyer of your patron is a coincidence.
dickens|twenty years.
austen|I will answer for it she never betrayed the least thing in the world.
austen|And now, poor girl!
dickens|A serf!
austen|It is remarkable, that Emma, in the many, very many, points of view in which she was now beginning to consider Donwell Abbey, was never struck with any sense of injury to her nephew Henry, whose rights as heirexpectant had formerly been so tenaciously regarded.
dickens|That you encourage him, and ride out with him, and that he dines with you this very day?
dickens|Ah, that indeed, Pip!
dickens|Monsieur Defarge put this provender, and the lamp he carried, on the shoemakers bench there was nothing else in the garret but a pallet bed, and he and Mr Lorry roused the captive, and assisted him to his feet.
dickens|Ah!
austen|He must be gone within a few hours, though without feeling any real alarm for his aunt, to lessen his repugnance.
dickens|Thats it!
dickens|When the prisoner came on board, he noticed that my father, turning her eyes lovingly to him as he stood beside her, was much fatigued and in a very weak state of health.
austen|With great indignation did he continue to observe him; with great alarm and distrust, to observe also his two blinded companions.
dickens|said madame, looking at him with a smile.
dickens|If the wind and the rain had driven away the intervening years, had scattered all the intervening objects, had swept us to the churchyard where we first stood face to face on such different levels, I could not have known my convict more distinctly than I knew him now as he sat in the chair before the fire.
austen|But against this there were objections; and she finally resolved that it could be the last resource, if her private inquiries to the absence of the family were unfavourably answered.
austen|When it came to such a pitch as this, she was not able to refrain from a start, or a heavy sigh, or even from walking about the room for a few secondsand the only source whence any thing like consolation or composure could be drawn, was in the resolution of her own better conduct, and the hope that, however inferior in spirit and gaiety might be the following and every future winter of her life to the past, it would yet find her more rational, more acquainted with herself, and leave her less to regret when it were gone.
austen|On the strength of Darcys regard, Bingley had the firmest reliance, and of his judgement the highest opinion.
austen|Mrs Phillips was quite awed by such an excess of good breeding; but her contemplation of one stranger was soon put to an end by exclamations and inquiries about the other; of whom, however, she could only tell her nieces what they already knew, that Mr Denny had brought him from London, and that he was to have a lieutenants commission in the shire.
dickens|He conducted us to Gerrard Street, Soho, to a house on the south side of that street.
austen|how peculiarly unprepared I was!
austen|Highbury gossips!
dickens|Everybody looked to see somebody fall, but only saw a man and a woman standing staring at each other; the man with all the outward aspect of a Frenchman and a thorough Republican; the woman, evidently English.
dickens|He would be greatly puzzled what to do?
dickens|Under the guidance of her Christian pastors, she entertained herself, besides, with such humane achievements as sentencing a youth to have his hands cut off, his tongue torn out with pincers, and his body burned alive, because he had not kneeled down in the rain to do honour to a dirty procession of monks which passed within his view, at a distance of some fifty or sixty yards.
dickens|I have saved him.
austen|I described, and enforced them earnestly.
dickens|That, if Joe knew it, I never afterwards could see him glance, however casually, at yesterdays meat or pudding when it came on todays table, without thinking that he was debating whether I had been in the pantry.
dickens|It is so, assented Defarge.
dickens|Ah!
dickens|You seem to know this quarter well; that is to say, better than I do?
austen|You, whom she had known from an infant, whom she had seen grow up from a period when her notice was an honour, to have you now, in thoughtless spirits, and the pride of the moment, laugh at her, humble herand before her niece, tooand before others, many of whom certainly some, would be entirely guided by your treatment of her.
austen|the good BatesesI am quite ashamed of myselfbut you mention them in most of your letters.
austen|Frank will be extremely happy, I am sure.
dickens|Now, come and take your place in the circle, and let us sit quiet, and hear the echoes about which you have your theory.
dickens|It almost seemed to me as if he must stoop down presently, to file at his leg.
austen|If ever there were people who, without having great wealth themselves, had every thing they could wish for, I am sure it is us.
dickens|Straining his powers of listening to the utmost, he listened for any sound that might denote suspicion or alarm.
austen|I met William Larkins, continued Mr Elton, as I got near the house, and he told me I should not find his master at home, but I did not believe him.
austen|She accounted for it, however, by supposing that her last letter to her friend from Longbourn had by some accident been lost.
austen|Have you heard the news?
dickens|This device I executed successfully.
austen|Elizabeth Bennet had been obliged, by the scarcity of gentlemen, to sit down for two dances; and during part of that time, Mr Darcy had been standing near enough for her to hear a conversation between him and Mr Bingley, who came from the dance for a few minutes, to press his friend to join it.
dickens|Swear that?
austen|Good Heaven!
austen|cried Elizabeth, darting from her seat as she finished the letter, in eagerness to follow him, without losing a moment of the time so precious; but as she reached the door it was opened by a servant, and Mr Darcy appeared.
austen|You and I need not be afraid.
austen|On entering the room, he seemed to hesitate; but Jane happened to look round, and happened to smile it was decided.
dickens|I believe so.
austen|Mr Woodhouse was fond of society in his own way.
dickens|As to its being a disorganised city, if it were not a disorganised city there would be no occasion to send somebody from our House here to our House there, who knows the city and the business, of old, and is in Tellsons confidence.
dickens|I denounce them to Heaven and to earth.
austen|What happiness it must be to her good old grandmother and excellent aunt, when she comes to visit them!
dickens|What was it?
dickens|But I felt myself so unequal to the performance that I gave it up, and stood looking at Miss Havisham in what I suppose she took for a dogged manner, inasmuch as she said, when we had taken a good look at each other,  Are you sullen and obstinate?
austen|She was proved to have been universally mistaken; and she had not quite done nothingfor she had done mischief.
austen|Long before he reappeared, attending the short, neat, briskmoving aunt, and her elegant niece,Mrs Weston, like a sweettempered woman and a good wife, had examined the passage again, and found the evils of it much less than she had supposed beforeindeed very trifling; and here ended the difficulties of decision.
dickens|No one but themselves and Mrs Coiler the toady neighbor showed any interest in this part of the conversation, and it appeared to me that it was painful to Herbert; but it promised to last a long time, when the page came in with the announcement of a domestic affliction.
austen|replied he.
dickens|I am a little tired, her husband acknowledged.
dickens|So quick was the Tribunal to compensate itself and the nation for a chance lost, that these five came down to him before he left the place, condemned to die within twentyfour hours.
dickens|This is my purse, and you are to pay my charges out of it.
austen|Their other aunt also visited them frequently, and always, as she said, with the design of cheering and heartening them upthough, as she never came without reporting some fresh instance of Wickhams extravagance or irregularity, she seldom went away without leaving them more dispirited than she found them.
austen|I promise you to make none for myself, papa; but I must, indeed, for other people.
dickens|This Foulon was at the Hotel de Ville, and might be loosed.
austen|The teteatete surprised them.
dickens|I have an affection for the road yet though it is not so pleasant a road as it was then, formed in the impressibility of untried youth and hope.
dickens|You would be infinitely better in Clarrikers house, small as it is.
austen|At the time of the ballrooms being built, suppers had not been in question; and a small cardroom adjoining, was the only addition.
dickens|My rapid mind pursued him to the town, made a picture of the street with him in it, and contrasted its lights and life with the lonely marsh and the white vapor creeping over it, into which I should have dissolved.
dickens|said Biddy.
dickens|Well!
dickens|Do you, Mr Pip?
austen|This was the only visit from Frank Churchill in the course of ten days.
dickens|Selecting from the few queer houses upon Mill Pond Bank a house with a wooden front and three stories of bowwindow not baywindow, which is another thing, I looked at the plate upon the door, and read there, Mrs Whimple.
austen|Were he ever able to get away, the day would be spent in coming and returning.
austen|Well, I am sure, Mr Churchillonly it seems too goodbut just as you please.
dickens|You are still hard at work, I see?
austen|I am in no hurry.
austen|I give you credit for it.
austen|A week elapsed before she could see Elizabeth without scolding her, a month passed away before she could speak to Sir William or Lady Lucas without being rude, and many months were gone before she could at all forgive their daughter.
austen|Mr Knightleys excessive curiosity to know what this word might be, made him seize every possible moment for darting his eye towards it, and it was not long before he saw it to be Dixon.
austen|My father is gone to London, and Jane has written to beg my uncles immediate assistance; and we shall be off, I hope, in halfanhour.
dickens|Manette, for your life, dont touch the blind!
dickens|Never mind me, Mum, returned that diabolical cornchandler.
austen|At this moment they were approaching Fords, and he hastily exclaimed, Ha!
dickens|His blue bag was slung over his shoulder, honest industry beamed in his eyes, a determination to proceed to Trabbs with cheerful briskness was indicated in his gait.
austen|Heavens!
austen|That Emma was his object appeared indisputable.
austen|You cannot really, seriously, doubt it.
dickens|What is it?
austen|Emma felt that she could not do better than go home directly.
dickens|Then only was he permitted to be seen, spectacularly poring over large books, and casting his breeches and gaiters into the general weight of the establishment.
austen|It is very unfair to judge of any bodys conduct, without an intimate knowledge of their situation.
dickens|I give this here bell a rap with this here hammer, and you go on along the passage till you meet somebody.
austen|When I consider, she added in a yet more agitated voice, that I might have prevented it!
dickens|He walked on the other side of it and protected it to the courtyard of the house where the afflicted heartso happy in the memorable time when he had revealed his own desolate heart to itoutwatched the awful night.
austen|How anyone could have the conscience to entail away an estate from ones own daughters, I cannot understand; and all for the sake of Mr Collins too!
austen|It has been so many years my province to give advice, that you cannot be surprized, Mr Knightley, at this little remains of office.
austen|An hours ride.
austen|Yes, madam, said Mrs Bennet, delighted to speak to Lady Catherine.
austen|the coldness of a Jane Fairfax!
dickens|This left me no course but to regret that I had been betrayed into a warmth which, and on the whole to repudiate, as untenable, the idea that I was to be found anywhere.
dickens|The theatre where Mr Wopsle had achieved his questionable triumph was in that waterside neighborhood it is nowhere now, and to that theatre I resolved to go.
austen|It is a rule with me, that a person who can write a long letter with ease, cannot write ill.
dickens|Guard!
dickens|In this strain of consolation, Herbert informed me the invisible Barley would commune with himself by the day and night together; Often, while it was light, having, at the same time, one eye at a telescope which was fitted on his bed for the convenience of sweeping the river.
dickens|However, did I find you out?
dickens|The night being so bad, sir, said the watchman, as he gave me back my glass, uncommon few have come in at my gate.
austen|and so forthI always felt that something would happen in our favour; and so it has, you see.
austen|Well checking herself, and trying to be more lively, this is all to be forgotten.
austen|But before I am run away with by my feelings on this subject, perhaps it would be advisable for me to state my reasons for marryingand, moreover, for coming into Hertfordshire with the design of selecting a wife, as I certainly did.
dickens|Compeysons business was the swindling, handwriting forging, stolen banknote passing, and suchlike.
dickens|inquired that lady thensharply, and yet as if to express that she bore him no malice.
dickens|My husband, it is so.
austen|Mr Darcy, you see, is the man!
austen|Miss Bingley is to live with her brother, and keep his house; and I am much mistaken if we shall not find a very charming neighbour in her.
austen|Come, Jane, take my other arm.
dickens|said I, poker in hand; its you, is it?
dickens|He was a younglooking man, in spite of his perplexities and his very gray hair, and his manner seemed quite natural.
dickens|said the sergeant, theyll find themselves trapped in a circle, I expect, sooner than they count on.
dickens|Towards midnight she began to wander in her speech; and after that it gradually set in that she said innumerable times in a low solemn voice, What have I done!
austen|Mr Elton was sitting here, I remember, much about where I am now.
dickens|Herbert was there, and Startop was there; but our boat was gone, and the two convicts were gone.
austen|Mr Knightley was there too, was he?
austen|Every lingering struggle in his favour grew fainter and fainter; and in farther justification of Mr Darcy, she could not but allow that Mr Bingley, when questioned by Jane, had long ago asserted his blamelessness in the affair; that proud and repulsive as were his manners, she had never, in the whole course of their acquaintancean acquaintance which had latterly brought them much together, and given her a sort of intimacy with his waysseen anything that betrayed him to be unprincipled or unjustanything that spoke him of irreligious or immoral habits; that among his own connections he was esteemed and valuedthat even Wickham had allowed him merit as a brother, and that she had often heard him speak so affectionately of his sister as to prove him capable of some amiable feeling; that had his actions been what Mr Wickham represented them, so gross a violation of everything right could hardly have been concealed from the world; and that friendship between a person capable of it, and such an amiable man as Mr Bingley, was incomprehensible.
dickens|We was in the same prisonship, but I couldnt get at him for long, though I tried.
dickens|Such masters were not at that time easily found; Princes that had been, and Kings that were to be, were not yet of the Teacher class, and no ruined nobility had dropped out of Tellsons ledgers, to turn cooks and carpenters.
dickens|We loitered down to the Temple stairs, and stood loitering there, as if we were not quite decided to go upon the water at all.
austen|It would have suited me in every respect.
austen|I am sure I do not know who is not.
dickens|Eh my faith.
austen|Her Bath habits made eveningparties perfectly natural to her, and Maple Grove had given her a taste for dinners.
dickens|After this escape, I was content to take a foggy view of the Inn through the windows encrusting dirt, and to stand dolefully looking out, saying to myself that London was decidedly overrated.
austen|Mr Frank Churchill, I must tell you my mothers spectacles have never been in fault since; the rivet never came out again.
austen|Their love of society, and their new diningroom, prepared every body for their keeping dinnercompany; and a few parties, chiefly among the single men, had already taken place.
dickens|Among these were the name of a bankinghouse in New South Wales, where a sum of money was, and the designation of certain lands of considerable value.
austen|Mr Elton was the only one whose assistance she asked.
dickens|Thank you, said I, shortly, but I dont eat watercresses.
dickens|He procured a pipe from a neighbouring publichouse, and smoked it, looking in at the railings and maturely considering the spot.
austen|He absolutely started, and for a moment seemed immovable from surprise; but shortly recovering himself, advanced towards the party, and spoke to Elizabeth, if not in terms of perfect composure, at least of perfect civility.
austen|I made the match, you know, four years ago; and to have it take place, and be proved in the right, when so many people said Mr Weston would never marry again, may comfort me for any thing.
austen|She rose early, and wrote her letter to Harriet; an employment which left her so very serious, so nearly sad, that Mr Knightley, in walking up to Hartfield to breakfast, did not arrive at all too soon; and half an hour stolen afterwards to go over the same ground again with him, literally and figuratively, was quite necessary to reinstate her in a proper share of the happiness of the evening before.
dickens|And it ever will be similar according.
austen|With all these circumstances to favour an attachment, and nothing to prevent it, am I wrong, my dearest Jane, in indulging the hope of an event which will secure the happiness of so many?
austen|When they parted, Lady Catherine, with great condescension, wished them a good journey, and invited them to come to Hunsford again next year; and Miss de Bourgh exerted herself so far as to curtsey and hold out her hand to both.
austen|As he was to begin his journey too early on the morrow to see any of the family, the ceremony of leavetaking was performed when the ladies moved for the night; and Mrs Bennet, with great politeness and cordiality, said how happy they should be to see him at Longbourn again, whenever his engagements might allow him to visit them.
dickens|That, Virtue, as had been observed by the poets in many passages which he well knew the jury would have, word for word, at the tips of their tongues; whereat the jurys countenances displayed a guilty consciousness that they knew nothing about the passages, was in a manner contagious; more especially the bright virtue known as patriotism, or love of country.
dickens|Foulon who told my baby it might suck grass, when these breasts were dry with want!
austen|Mr Phillips visited them all, and this opened to his nieces a store of felicity unknown before.
austen|He shall not be in love with me, if I can prevent it.
dickens|But that Woodman and that Farmer, though they work unceasingly, work silently, and no one heard them as they went about with muffled tread the rather, forasmuch as to entertain any suspicion that they were awake, was to be atheistical and traitorous.
dickens|And Joe, I am very glad you did so.
dickens|What is detestable in a pig is more detestable in a boy.
dickens|
dickens|Not but what, Pip, if you had ever made objections to the business,such as its being open to black and sut, or suchlike,not but what they would have been attended to, dont you see?
austen|I heard a good deal of Colonel Campbells taste at Weymouth; and the softness of the upper notes I am sure is exactly what he and all that party would particularly prize.
austen|The compliment was just returned, coldly and proudly; and, under indescribable irritation of spirits, she was then conveyed to Hartfield.
dickens|Can you doubt, if there is but one in it, which is the one, and, if there is two in it, which is much the worst one?
austen|This was a lucky recollectionit saved her from something very like regret.
austen|Low, I am afraid, sir, very low, answered his son;but we shall be indulgentespecially to any one who leads the way.
dickens|Why so?
dickens|he asked, in a whisper, of the man he found himself next to.
dickens|Can you identify him as your fellowpassenger on board the packet, or speak to his conversation with your daughter?
austen|Perrys setting up his carriage!
austen|He found her as handsome as she had been last year; as good natured, and as unaffected, though not quite so chatty.
dickens|Here and there, especially at first, the inundation started on them and swept by; but when they had done descending, and were winding and climbing up a tower, they were alone.
dickens|Not he!
austen|His accompanying them was a double advantage; she felt all the compliment it offered to herself, and it was most acceptable as an occasion of introducing him to her father and mother.
austen|A low phaeton, with a nice little pair of ponies, would be the very thing.
austen|Mr Knightley was hard at work upon the lower buttons of his thick leather gaiters, and either the exertion of getting them together, or some other cause, brought the colour into his face, as he answered,  Oh!
austen|His attentions to Miss King were now the consequence of views solely and hatefully mercenary; and the mediocrity of her fortune proved no longer the moderation of his wishes, but his eagerness to grasp at anything.
austen|Not to wait upon a bride is very remiss.
dickens|You used not to echo, Biddy.
austen|I knew you would wish it.
dickens|What is the matter?
dickens|He leaned forward staring at me, slowly unclenched his hand and drew it across his mouth as if his mouth watered for me, and sat down again.
austen|cried Emma, shaking her head.
austen|When Lady Catherine and her daughter had played as long as they chose, the tables were broken up, the carriage was offered to Mrs Collins, gratefully accepted and immediately ordered.
dickens|That friend and fellowSheep, who spoke of himself as pasturing in the country prisons; who was he?
dickens|He drew the bottle near, poured out another glassful of brandy, and drank it off.
dickens|You dont know the value of money, you live hard, youll knock up one of these days, and be ill and poor; you really ought to think about a nurse.
dickens|I have by no means forgotten it, and a light answer does not help me to forget it.
dickens|She was proud and insulting, and you wanted to go away from her.
austen|There is no necessity for my calling this morning, said the young man; another day would do as well; but there was that degree of acquaintance at Weymouth which  Oh!
dickens|And couldnt she ask Uncle Pumblechook if he knew of a boy to go and play there?
dickens|It hushed the eloquent, struck down the powerful, abolished the beautiful and good.
austen|Her manners were pronounced to be very bad indeed, a mixture of pride and impertinence; she had no conversation, no style, no beauty.
austen|A disagreeable truth would be palatable through her lips, but I am the wretchedest being in the world at a civil falsehood.
austen|That his anger could be carried to such a point of inconceivable resentment as to refuse his daughter a privilege without which her marriage would scarcely seem valid, exceeded all she could believe possible.
dickens|When we drove up to the Blue Boar after a drizzly ride, whom should I see come out under the gateway, toothpick in hand, to look at the coach, but Bentley Drummle!
austen|I do not see it.
dickens|That head Mr AttorneyGeneral concluded by demanding of them, in the name of everything he could think of with a round turn in it, and on the faith of his solemn asseveration that he already considered the prisoner as good as dead and gone.
austen|And so ended his affection, said Elizabeth impatiently.
dickens|Dont say fit for nothing.
dickens|She then sat down on the stairs a few moments to breathe and to cry, and then got up and hurried away.
austen|Where is my father?
dickens|And then he would rumple my hair the wrong way,which from my earliest remembrance, as already hinted, I have in my soul denied the right of any fellowcreature to do,and would hold me before him by the sleeve,a spectacle of imbecility only to be equalled by himself.
austen|I felt that it would be of a different sort.
dickens|Never heard of it.
austen|what is to become of us?
austen|Their manner of living, even when the restoration of peace dismissed them to a home, was unsettled in the extreme.
austen|And pray what sort of guardians do you make?
dickens|Regular rules!
austen|poor Eliza!
dickens|Yesterday.
austen|The country is a vast deal pleasanter, is it not, Mr Bingley?
dickens|Am I answered that you are ready to be placed at once under some proper tutor?
austen|GARDINER.
dickens|she asked him.
austen|But no such recollection befriended her.
dickens|It began to be rumoured that the jury would be out a long while.
austen|He had not time to enter into much explanation.
austen|Thank you.
dickens|So!
dickens|Haunted in a most ghastly manner that abominable place would have been, if the glass could ever have rendered back its reflections, as the ocean is one day to give up its dead.
dickens|The Dover road lay, as to him, beyond the Dover mail, as it lumbered up Shooters Hill.
dickens|I put my light out, and crept into bed; and it was an uneasy bed now, and I never slept the old sound sleep in it any more.
dickens|The jackal removed the towels from his head, which had been steaming again, shook himself, yawned, shivered, and complied.
austen|He made a little mistake to be sure; but it is to the credit of his modesty.
dickens|Do you suppose, Mr Lorry went on, with a laughing twinkle in his bright eye, as it looked kindly at her, that Doctor Manette has any theory of his own, preserved through all those years, relative to the cause of his being so oppressed; perhaps, even to the name of his oppressor?
austen|Mrs Weston, did you ever hear the like?
dickens|We exchanged a cordial goodnight, and I went home, with new matter for my thoughts, though with no relief from the old.
dickens|And then, when I have eaten and drunk with you, go with me as far as the fingerpost, dear Joe and Biddy, before we say goodbye!
dickens|Three times five; will that do?
dickens|But now Ill ask you a question.
austen|She is a very great favourite with some ladies of my acquaintance, Mrs Hurst and Miss Bingley.
austen|We both abhor suspense.
dickens|His tone lingered in the air, almost like the tone of a musical instrument.
dickens|Not knowing what to do,for, in my astonishment I had lost my selfpossession,I reluctantly gave him my hands.
austen|Did he appear a sensible young man; a young man of information?
dickens|What was he like?
austen|Alas!
austen|He began to feel the danger of paying Elizabeth too much attention.
dickens|After that, he fell to gardening, and I saw him from my gothic window pretending to employ the Aged, and nodding at him in a most devoted manner.
austen|And how does he travel now?
dickens|I dont like to say, I stammered.
dickens|The bronze face, the shaggy black hair and beard, the coarse woollen red cap, the rough medley dress of homespun stuff and hairy skins of beasts, the powerful frame attenuated by spare living, and the sullen and desperate compression of the lips in sleep, inspired the mender of roads with awe.
dickens|Mr Lorry waited until ten; but, Doctor Manette not returning, and he being unwilling to leave Lucie any longer, it was arranged that he should go back to her, and come to the bankinghouse again at midnight.
dickens|Ay!
dickens|But as he sat gloating over me, I was supported by a scornful detestation of him that sealed my lips.
austen|They had not intended to go over till the summer, but she is so impatient to see them againfor till she married, last October, she was never away from them so much as a week, which must make it very strange to be in different kingdoms, I was going to say, but however different countries, and so she wrote a very urgent letter to her motheror her father, I declare I do not know which it was, but we shall see presently in Janes letterwrote in Mr Dixons name as well as her own, to press their coming over directly, and they would give them the meeting in Dublin, and take them back to their country seat, Balycraig, a beautiful place, I fancy.
austen|cried Lydia.
dickens|As I lay in bed looking at him, it made me, in my weak state, cry again with pleasure to see the pride with which he set about his letter.
austen|I am exceedingly sorry but it is well that the mistake ends where it does.
austen|Interferencefruitless interference.
austen|She knew a family near Maple Grove who had tried it, and been obliged to separate before the end of the first quarter.
austen|How did you all behave?
dickens|said he.
austen|Shall we ask him why a man of sense and education, and who has lived in the world, is ill qualified to recommend himself to strangers?
austen|They were to be off as soon as possible.
dickens|Hah!
austen|Serious she was, very serious in her thankfulness, and in her resolutions; and yet there was no preventing a laugh, sometimes in the very midst of them.
austen|But whether she were violently set against the match, or violently delighted with it, it was certain that her manner would be equally ill adapted to do credit to her sense; and she could no more bear that Mr Darcy should hear the first raptures of her joy, than the first vehemence of her disapprobation.
dickens|And Georgianas there!
dickens|They awakened a tender emotion in me; for my heart was softened by my return, and such a change had come to pass, that I felt like one who was toiling home barefoot from distant travel, and whose wanderings had lasted many years.
dickens|Herbert had been writing with his pencil in the cover of a book.
dickens|Or Provisthank you, Pip.
austen|She was busily searching through the neighbourhood for a proper situation for her daughter, and, without knowing or considering what their income might be, rejected many as deficient in size and importance.
dickens|On this occasion, Miss Pross, responding to Ladybirds pleasant face and pleasant efforts to please her, unbent exceedingly; so the dinner was very pleasant, too.
dickens|A mastermind.
dickens|Struck with consternation, the old gentleman exclaimed, What do you tell me!
dickens|I wish I could!
dickens|What do you mean, sir?
dickens|Is all the spilt wine swallowed?
austen|Thank you, dear Miss Woodhouse, you are all kindness.
austen|Mrs Gardiner and her niece, however, did her justice, and pitied her.
dickens|Seeing, or fancying, that I was suspected of an intention of carrying poison to him, I asked to be searched before I sat down at his bedside, and told the officer who was always there, that I was willing to do anything that would assure him of the singleness of my designs.
austen|Fourteen minutes to be given to those with whom she had thankfully passed six weeks not six months ago!
austen|The first error and the worst lay at her door.
dickens|No man can decide now to which of these motives such extraordinary scenes were referable; it is probable, to a blending of all the three, with the second predominating.
dickens|Very strange to see what a struggle there was within him!
dickens|He enjoyed himself thoroughly, and we all enjoyed ourselves, and were delightfully comfortable.
dickens|I left at sunset as I had been warned to do, and I walked on, that night and half next day, until I met as I was warned I should this comrade.
dickens|Sydney drank a bumper of the punch he had made, and laughed.
dickens|The sun had been shining brightly all day on the roof of my attic, and the room was warm.
dickens|Mr Pumblechook began again when he had recovered; folding his arms tight on his chest and applying the screw.
austen|Oh!
dickens|Oh Lord!
dickens|I think in all respects.
dickens|Not at all, retained the ancient clerk.
austen|So obliged to you for the carriage last night.
austen|Oh!
dickens|But Ill swear it was a name of two syllables.
dickens|I received a letter from the Bank, sir, yesterday, informing me that some intelligenceor discovery  The word is not material, miss; either word will do.
austen|Your superior knowledge of your sister must make the latter probable.
austen|she is a sweet creature!
dickens|Two score and twelve were told off.
dickens|I frowningly sat down to my breakfast.
austen|Quite well, I am much obliged to you.
dickens|There was some hushing, and the Judge went on with what he had to say to the rest.
dickens|I am glad of that.
dickens|Says you, Joseph, I have this day seen my earliest benefactor and the founder of my fortuns.
dickens|Because he is lame, and consequently slow, they drive him with their gunslike this!
austen|But when satisfied on all these points, and their acquaintance proportionably advanced, he contrived to find an opportunity, while their two fathers were engaged with each other, of introducing his motherinlaw, and speaking of her with so much handsome praise, so much warm admiration, so much gratitude for the happiness she secured to his father, and her very kind reception of himself, as was an additional proof of his knowing how to pleaseand of his certainly thinking it worth while to try to please her.
dickens|And there was no daylight in the room, but it was all lighted up with candles.
austen|Morning decidedly the best timenever tiredevery sort goodhautboy infinitely superiorno comparisonthe others hardly eatablehautboys very scarceChili preferredwhite wood finest flavour of allprice of strawberries in Londonabundance about BristolMaple Grovecultivationbeds when to be renewedgardeners thinking exactly differentno general rulegardeners never to be put out of their waydelicious fruitonly too rich to be eaten much ofinferior to cherriescurrants more refreshingonly objection to gathering strawberries the stoopingglaring suntired to deathcould bear it no longermust go and sit in the shade.
dickens|How you start!
austen|Such a sad loss to our party today!
dickens|Every morning, with an air ever new, Herbert went into the City to look about him.
dickens|Hunger rattled its dry bones among the roasting chestnuts in the turned cylinder; Hunger was shred into atomics in every farthing porringer of husky chips of potato, fried with some reluctant drops of oil.
dickens|I have never been unfaithful to you or your schooling.
austen|No, no; your room is full enough.
dickens|I dont want to know what passed between Herbert there and you,  growled Drummle.
dickens|It being market morning at a neighboring town some ten miles off, Mr Pumblechook was not at home.
dickens|But, what then?
austen|Excellently contrived, upon my word.
austen|You will say that I am quite an invalid, and go no where, and therefore must decline their obliging invitation; beginning with my compliments, of course.
dickens|Like the mariner in the old story, the winds and streams had driven him within the influence of the Loadstone Rock, and it was drawing him to itself, and he must go.
dickens|You mean stole, said the sergeant.
austen|It did not seem to touch the rest of the party equally; some looked very stupid about it, and Mr Knightley gravely said,  This explains the sort of clever thing that is wanted, and Mr Weston has done very well for himself; but he must have knocked up every body else.
austen|Poor girl!
austen|she sat still, she walked about, she tried her own room, she tried the shrubberyin every place, every posture, she perceived that she had acted most weakly; that she had been imposed on by others in a most mortifying degree; that she had been imposing on herself in a degree yet more mortifying; that she was wretched, and should probably find this day but the beginning of wretchedness.
austen|To my fancy, it is only because he does not rattle away like other young men.
dickens|I have a notion of firing eightytwo times, if the neighborhood shouldnt complain, and that cannon of mine should prove equal to the pressure.
austen|Her gestures and movements might be understood by any one who looked on like Emma; but her words, every bodys words, were soon lost under the incessant flow of Miss Bates, who came in talking, and had not finished her speech under many minutes after her being admitted into the circle at the fire.
dickens|The soldiers were moving on in the direction of the old Battery, and we were moving on a little way behind them, when, all of a sudden, we all stopped.
dickens|To avoid being too abrupt, I then spoke of the Aged and of Miss Skiffins.
dickens|Now mind!
austen|This man is almost too gallant to be in love, thought Emma.
austen|I am prodigiously proud of him.
austen|Find some body for me.
austen|I think he is just the person to do it, even without being in love.
dickens|All our lives, we have seen our sisterwomen suffer, in themselves and in their children, poverty, nakedness, hunger, thirst, sickness, misery, oppression and neglect of all kinds?
dickens|Biddy looked down at her child, and put its little hand to her lips, and then put the good matronly hand with which she had touched it into mine.
dickens|said Carton.
dickens|We ate the whole of the toast, and drank tea in proportion, and it was delightful to see how warm and greasy we all got after it.
austen|so long ago as the 7th of November, as I am going to read to you, and has never been well since.
austen|You had better explore to Donwell, replied Mr Knightley.
austen|The idea of her being indebted to Mrs Elton for what was called an introductionof her going into public under the auspices of a friend of Mrs Eltonsprobably some vulgar, dashing widow, who, with the help of a boarder, just made a shift to live!
austen|Robert Martin would never have proceeded so far, if he had not felt persuaded of her not being disinclined to him.
dickens|Of course.
dickens|The Prisoners!
austen|When they had gained their own room, Jane, taking out the letter, said  This is from Caroline Bingley; what it contains has surprised me a good deal.
dickens|We are pursued?
austen|His sister was less delicate, and directed her eyes towards Mr Darcy with a very expressive smile.
dickens|I remember a certain famous occasion when you forced me to confess that you had been drinking.
dickens|It was raised for a moment, and a very faint voice responded to the salutation, as if it were at a distance  Good day!
austen|We all love to instruct, though we can teach only what is not worth knowing.
dickens|Who gave them out, whence they last came, where they began, through what agency they crookedly quivered and jerked, scores at a time, over the heads of the crowd, like a kind of lightning, no eye in the throng could have told; but, muskets were being distributedso were cartridges, powder, and ball, bars of iron and wood, knives, axes, pikes, every weapon that distracted ingenuity could discover or devise.
dickens|Nor did I look towards Wemmick until I had finished all I had to tell, and had been for some time silently meeting Mr Jaggerss look.
austen|I did not think Caroline in spirits, were her words, but she was very glad to see me, and reproached me for giving her no notice of my coming to London.
austen|such attention to Jane!
austen|He knows of my being in town, I am certain, from something she said herself; and yet it would seem, by her manner of talking, as if she wanted to persuade herself that he is really partial to Miss Darcy.
dickens|What do you come snivelling here for?
austen|Mr Knightleys air is so remarkably good that it is not fair to compare Mr Martin with him.
dickens|You shall not shed tears for my cruelty today; you shall be my Page, and give me your shoulder.
dickens|Tell me what it is.
dickens|He is nobodys enemy  Dont add but his own, interposed Estella, for I hate that class of man.
dickens|Why, of course, my dear boy, returned Herbert, in a tone of surprise, and again bending forward to get a nearer look at me.
dickens|The bare idea!
austen|of all his sisters falsehood and contrivance!
austen|Yes, and what you told me on that head, confirmed an idea which I had entertained before.
dickens|Ive been carted here and carted there, and put out of this town, and put out of that town, and stuck in the stocks, and whipped and worried and drove.
dickens|In Miss Havishams room.
dickens|There was such a malignant enjoyment in her utterance of the last words, and she broke into such a disagreeable laugh, that I was at a loss what to say.
dickens|When, at last, she came round so far as to be helped downstairs, it was still necessary to keep my slate always by her, that she might indicate in writing what she could not indicate in speech.
dickens|As I drew her down into her chair, I was conscious of a scent that I knew, and turning, saw my guardian in the room.
austen|His former acquaintances had been numerous; but since he had been in the militia, it did not appear that he was on terms of particular friendship with any of them.
dickens|exclaimed my sister.
austen|Hope was over, entirely over; and when Jane could attend to the rest of the letter, she found little, except the professed affection of the writer, that could give her any comfort.
austen|That will obviate all difficulties you know; and from us I really think, my dear Jane, you can have no scruple to accept such an accommodation.
dickens|At other times, I thought, What if the young man who was with so much difficulty restrained from imbruing his hands in me should yield to a constitutional impatience, or should mistake the time, and should think himself accredited to my heart and liver tonight, instead of tomorrow!
dickens|Get out.
austen|He may spend the evening with his dear William Larkins now if he likes.
austen|She never mentioned it before, because she would not alarm us.
dickens|This release had befallen her some two years before; for anything I knew, she was married again.
dickens|And all of us have like wonders hidden in our breasts, only needing circumstances to evoke them.
dickens|And that Mr Jaggers  Mr Jaggers, said Miss Havisham, taking me up in a firm tone, had nothing to do with it, and knew nothing of it.
dickens|He seemed so brave and innocent, that although I had not proposed the contest, I felt but a gloomy satisfaction in my victory.
dickens|If youll excuse me, as very much your elder, for saying so, I really dont know that it is your business.
austen|She felt herself a most fortunate woman; and she had lived long enough to know how fortunate she might well be thought, where the only regret was for a partial separation from friends whose friendship for her had never cooled, and who could ill bear to part with her.
dickens|said the man.
dickens|cried my excitable acquaintance, turning white, dont thay youre again Habraham Latharuth!
austen|She was a very pretty girl, and her beauty happened to be of a sort which Emma particularly admired.
dickens|We certainly had not been, and at that time as certainly we were not either attended or followed by any boat.
austen|A fine young man certainly is Frank Churchill.
dickens|The Castle battlements arose upon my view at eight oclock.
austen|Mr Knightley could not impute to Emma a more relenting heart than she possessed, or a heart more disposed to accept of his.
dickens|Your life is in your own hands.
austen|Mr Knightley was thoughtful again.
dickens|This brought us to the dinnertable, where she and Sarah Pocket awaited us.
dickens|I wondered whether he could be a doctor; but no, I thought; he couldnt be a doctor, or he would have a quieter and more persuasive manner.
austen|How the trampers might have behaved, had the young ladies been more courageous, must be doubtful; but such an invitation for attack could not be resisted; and Harriet was soon assailed by half a dozen children, headed by a stout woman and a great boy, all clamorous, and impertinent in look, though not absolutely in word.
dickens|It ought to be, it must be, Ill swear its there.
dickens|Her graceful figure and her beautiful face expressed a selfpossessed indifference to the wild heat of the other, that was almost cruel.
austen|Not more than five couple could be mustered; but the rarity and the suddenness of it made it very delightful, and she found herself well matched in a partner.
dickens|What does that mean, Joe?
dickens|He whiffed the compound of scents away, as he put down his smokedout pipe.
austen|He had been going to call on them.
austen|Of such, one may almost say, that the world is not theirs, nor the worlds law.
dickens|Now mind!
dickens|What would alone have set a division between that man and us, if there had been no other dividing circumstance, was his triumph in my story.
austen|Mrs Perry was always particularly fond of my motherindeed I do not know who is notand she had mentioned it to her in confidence; she had no objection to her telling us, of course, but it was not to go beyond and, from that day to this, I never mentioned it to a soul that I know of.
austen|and she was sorry to find from Mrs Goddard that Harriet was liable to very bad sorethroats, and had often alarmed her with them.
austen|You will be having a charming motherinlaw, indeed; and, of course, she will always be at Pemberley with you.
austen|she cried.
austen|Her brothers recommendation was enough to ensure her favour; his judgement could not err.
austen|Mrs Hodges may well be angry.
austen|Oh!
dickens|When I bent down and said to him, Dear Joe, how are you?
austen|If she is really ill, why not go to Bath, Mr Weston?
dickens|I could not see where his wound was, as I kneeled on one knee over him; but, I could see that he was dying of a wound from a sharp point.
austen|I am sure it almost killed me once.
dickens|Whereas they were easy of innocent solution apart,as, for instance, some diner out or diner at home, who had not gone near this watchmans gate, might have strayed to my staircase and dropped asleep there,and my nameless visitor might have brought some one with him to show him the way,still, joined, they had an ugly look to one as prone to distrust and fear as the changes of a few hours had made me.
dickens|Whats in the bottle, boy?
dickens|We are not free to follow our own devices, you and I.
dickens|Which I meantersay, Pip, it might be that her meaning were,Make a end on it!
austen|If I could but see her again!
austen|It was her own universal goodwill and contented temper which worked such wonders.
dickens|Pride, contempt, defiance, stubbornness, submission, lamentation, succeeded one another; so did varieties of sunken cheek, cadaverous colour, emaciated hands and figures.
dickens|It was at a distance towards the east, but it was long and loud.
austen|I hope I am aware that they may be too noisy for your fatheror even may be some encumbrance to you, if your visiting engagements continue to increase as much as they have done lately.
austen|I do believe, she continued, this is the most troublesome parish that ever was.
austen|A very fine young man indeed, Mr Weston.
dickens|So you were never in London before?
dickens|Now, Mr Cruncher!
dickens|I am not a traitor.
dickens|What is to be told to Ladybird?
dickens|She had not been married many weeks, when that mans brother saw her and admired her, and asked that man to lend her to himfor what are husbands among us!
dickens|A head is held up, and the knittingwomen who scarcely lifted their eyes to look at it a moment ago when it could think and speak, count One.
austen|Nor I, I am sure, said Miss Bingley.
dickens|It was the Dover road that lay, on a Friday night late in November, before the first of the persons with whom this history has business.
dickens|How much?
dickens|See here again!
dickens|Old Barley was growling and swearing when we repassed his door, with no appearance of having ceased or of meaning to cease.
austen|I did it because I thought it would offend you; but, as you made no objection, I never did it again.
austen|His present pursuit could not make him forget that Elizabeth had been the first to excite and to deserve his attention, the first to listen and to pity, the first to be admired; and in his manner of bidding her adieu, wishing her every enjoyment, reminding her of what she was to expect in Lady Catherine de Bourgh, and trusting their opinion of hertheir opinion of everybodywould always coincide, there was a solicitude, an interest which she felt must ever attach her to him with a most sincere regard; and she parted from him convinced that, whether married or single, he must always be her model of the amiable and pleasing.
dickens|Keep off!
dickens|When Miss Havisham had fixed her attention on me, she said, speaking as if there had been no lapse in our dialogue,  What else?
dickens|It is probable that there had long been a dread lurking in his mind, that those associations would be recalledsay, under certain circumstancessay, on a particular occasion.
austen|He knew her illnesses; they never occurred but for her own convenience.
austen|My dear Emma, said he at last, with earnest kindness, do you think you perfectly understand the degree of acquaintance between the gentleman and lady we have been speaking of?
dickens|I dined at what Herbert and I used to call a geographical chophouse, where there were maps of the world in porterpot rims on every halfyard of the tablecloths, and charts of gravy on every one of the knives,to this day there is scarcely a single chophouse within the Lord Mayors dominions which is not geographical,and wore out the time in dozing over crumbs, staring at gas, and baking in a hot blast of dinners.
dickens|It would satisfy me, I dare say, to know that I had it.
austen|Robert Martins manners have sense, sincerity, and goodhumour to recommend them; and his mind has more true gentility than Harriet Smith could understand.
austen|Indeed I do not dare.
dickens|After another silent turn in the garden, I fell back on the main position.
dickens|He forged wills, this blade did, if he didnt also put the supposed testators to sleep too.
dickens|Is he living?
dickens|I kissed her cheek as she turned it to me.
austen|But I think, my dear, you said you had got it.
dickens|He added the last words, after there had been a vivid flash which had shown him lounging in the window.
dickens|But he eyed me severely,as if I had done anything to him!
austen|just the trifling, silly fellow I took him for.
dickens|Then you must get him out of England before you stir a finger to extricate yourself.
austen|While she talked of his son, Mr Westons attention was chained; but when she got to Maple Grove, he could recollect that there were ladies just arriving to be attended to, and with happy smiles must hurry away.
austen|That he had been concerned in the measures taken to separate Bingley and Jane she had never doubted; but she had always attributed to Miss Bingley the principal design and arrangement of them.
dickens|Be explicit, said the Doctor.
dickens|She was at his elbow when he addressed her, putting a dish upon the table.
dickens|I know nothing about times.
dickens|For Estellas sake.
austen|That was all very true.
austen|Mr Wickham began to speak on more general topics, Meryton, the neighbourhood, the society, appearing highly pleased with all that he had yet seen, and speaking of the latter with gentle but very intelligible gallantry.
dickens|Say but one affectionate word to me, and tell me there is nothing angry or estranged between us, and I will detain you no longer.
austen|He must do it all himself.
dickens|Here.
dickens|Look out, look out, and see if we are pursued.
dickens|Not much.
austen|But they were entirely ignorant of what had passed; and their raptures continued, with little intermission, to the very day of Lydias leaving home.
austen|About the court, such instances of elegant breeding are not uncommon.
austen|I hope he will overlook it.
dickens|Such a heart Madame Defarge carried under her rough robe.
austen|Then the baked apples came home, Mrs Wallis sent them by her boy; they are extremely civil and obliging to us, the Wallises, alwaysI have heard some people say that Mrs Wallis can be uncivil and give a very rude answer, but we have never known any thing but the greatest attention from them.
dickens|Herbert, my dear friend, said I, shutting the double doors, while Herbert stood staring and wondering, something very strange has happened.
dickens|Five?
dickens|I know I have done nothing to raise myself in life, and that Fortune alone has raised me; that is being very lucky.
austen|She immediately felt that whatever desire Miss Darcy might have of being acquainted with her must be the work of her brother, and, without looking farther, it was satisfactory; it was gratifying to know that his resentment had not made him think really ill of her.
dickens|Gracious you, indeed, Mum!
dickens|The whole jury, as a jury of dogs empannelled to try the deer.
austen|She longed to see Mrs Phillips, the Lucases, and all their other neighbours, and to hear herself called Mrs Wickham  by each of them; and in the mean time, she went after dinner to show her ring, and boast of being married, to Mrs Hill and the two housemaids.
dickens|More fool you, growled the other.
dickens|It happened on two or three occasions in my presence, that his desperate reputation was alluded to by one or other of the people in attendance on him.
dickens|Out of a cupboard, said I.
dickens|The citizeness is superb!
dickens|Let us be clearheaded.
dickens|That I cannot wish to renew that chance intercourse with you of long ago, under these different circumstances.
austen|You hear nothing but truth from me.
dickens|Detestation of the high is the involuntary homage of the low.
austen|You are quite right.
dickens|Saw you, Mr Pip!
dickens|He wore his hat on the back of his head, and looked straight before him walking in a selfcontained way as if there were nothing in the streets to claim his attention.
austen|Not so hasty, if you please.
dickens|My terror, as I lay there, of falling ill, and being unfitted for tomorrow, was so besetting, that I wonder it did not disable me of itself.
dickens|Now, your inclinations are to be consulted.
dickens|Digdigdiguntil an impatient movement from one of the two passengers would admonish him to pull up the window, draw his arm securely through the leathern strap, and speculate upon the two slumbering forms, until his mind lost its hold of them, and they again slid away into the bank and the grave.
dickens|Then, my dear Handel, said he, turning round as the door opened, here is the dinner, and I must beg of you to take the top of the table, because the dinner is of your providing.
austen|Calling back the servant, therefore, she commissioned him, though in so breathless an accent as made her almost unintelligible, to fetch his master and mistress home instantly.
austen|My first displays the wealth and pomp of kings,       Lords of the earth!
dickens|Which I meantersay, Pip, Joe now observed in a manner that was at once expressive of forcible argumentation, strict confidence, and great politeness, as I hup and married your sister, and I were at the time what you might call if you was anyways inclined a single man.
austen|I shall introduce her, of course, very particularly to my brother and sister when they come to us.
dickens|said Biddy, shaking her head with a sorrowful air.
dickens|Mine!
austen|You are afraid of giving me trouble; but I assure you, my dear Jane, the Campbells can hardly be more interested about you than I am.
austen|This was very amiable, but Charlottes kindness extended farther than Elizabeth had any conception of; its object was nothing else than to secure her from any return of Mr Collinss addresses, by engaging them towards herself.
dickens|I aint a going, said Joe, from behind his sleeve, to tell him nothink o that natur, Pip.
dickens|In another moment we were in the brewery, so long disused, and she pointed to the high gallery where I had seen her going out on that same first day, and told me she remembered to have been up there, and to have seen me standing scared below.
dickens|No, thank you, I replied, turning from the table to brood over the fire.
dickens|Is it true?
dickens|As I stood idle by Mr Jaggerss fire, its rising and falling flame made the two casts on the shelf look as if they were playing a diabolical game at bopeep with me; while the pair of coarse, fat office candles that dimly lighted Mr Jaggers as he wrote in a corner were decorated with dirty windingsheets, as if in remembrance of a host of hanged clients.
dickens|Nevertheless, Doctor, my sister married.
austen|Not too strongly for the offencebut far, far too strongly to issue from any feeling softer than upright justice and clearsighted goodwill.
austen|Nobody but you, Mr Knightley, would imagine it possible.
austen|But what shall I say?
dickens|It was in vain that I asked her for her family name.
austen|Emma has been meaning to read more ever since she was twelve years old.
dickens|Mr Pumblechook and Mrs Joe stared at one anotheras they well mightand both repeated, In a black velvet coach?
dickens|Whats that?
austen|Emma could not like what bordered on a reflection on Mr Weston, and had half a mind to take it up; but she struggled, and let it pass.
dickens|Biddy turned her face suddenly towards mine, and looked far more attentively at me than she had looked at the sailing ships.
austen|As soon as they entered, Bingley looked at her so expressively, and shook hands with such warmth, as left no doubt of his good information; and he soon afterwards said aloud, Mrs Bennet, have you no more lanes hereabouts in which Lizzy may lose her way again today?
austen|In what a disgraceful light might it not strike so vain a man!
dickens|You told me, Mr Jaggers, that it might be years hence when that person appeared.
dickens|Hold up your head, boy, and be forever grateful unto them which so did do.
austen|It is often only carelessness of opinion, and sometimes an indirect boast.
austen|She did look vexed, she did speak pointedlyand at last, with a decision of action unusual to her, proposed a removal.
austen|Franks mother would never have been slighted as she was but for her.
austen|Within half an hour it was known all over Highbury.
austen|She deserves a better fate.
dickens|All this was seen in a moment, as the vision of a drowning man, or of any human creature at any very great pass, could see a world if it were there.
austen|She felt it so; and though, in looking forward, neither rational happiness nor worldly prosperity could be justly expected for her sister, in looking back to what they had feared, only two hours ago, she felt all the advantages of what they had gained.
dickens|Forgive me if I notice that you are affected.
dickens|Let us drink, Thanks to Fortune, and may she ever pick out her favorites with equal judgment!
dickens|Then why, said Mr Jaggers, do you come here?
dickens|I looked at Wemmick, whose face was very grave.
austen|or a mermaid?
dickens|However, they were grown up and had their own way, and they made the most of it.
dickens|My sister with an exclamation of impatience was going to fly at me,I had no shadow of defence, for Joe was busy in the forge,when Mr Pumblechook interposed with No!
dickens|Suddenly, the postilions exchange speech with animated gesticulation, and the horses are pulled up, almost on their haunches.
dickens|On my politely bidding him Good morning, he said, pompously, Seven times nine, boy?
dickens|And I couldnt be a match for the rogues, without being a match for you, who are the blackestlooking and the worst rogue between this and France.
dickens|Tellsons shall not be imposed upon.
austen|I am tired of doing nothing.
dickens|But it is useless to discuss the question.
dickens|As I really think I should have liked to do myself, if I had been in their place and so despised.
dickens|After dinner the children were introduced, and Mrs Coiler made admiring comments on their eyes, noses, and legs,a sagacious way of improving their minds.
austen|WESTON CHURCHILL.
dickens|Mrs Whimple confides to me that he is certainly going.
austen|You may depend upon me, said she.
austen|These were the ladies whom Emma found herself very frequently able to collect; and happy was she, for her fathers sake, in the power; though, as far as she was herself concerned, it was no remedy for the absence of Mrs Weston.
dickens|Those were the two little words, more capital.
dickens|Throughout, I had seemed to myself to attend more to the wind and the rain than to him; even now, I could not separate his voice from those voices, though those were loud and his was silent.
austen|William Larkins let me keep a larger quantity than usual this year.
austen|after the note I sent him this morning, and the message he returned, that he should certainly be at home till one.
dickens|The effort of resolution necessary to the achievement of this purpose I found to be quite awful.
austen|They hardly can satisfy a woman of her good sense and quick feelings standing in a mothers place, but without a mothers affection to blind her.
austen|The extravagance and general profligacy which he scrupled not to lay at Mr Wickhams charge, exceedingly shocked her; the more so, as she could bring no proof of its injustice.
dickens|I derived from this speech that Mr Herbert Pocket for Herbert was the pale young gentlemans name still rather confounded his intention with his execution.
dickens|The question is, Would you want anything?
austen|It is not Mr Bingley, said her husband; it is a person whom I never saw in the whole course of my life.
austen|She was then but fifteen, which must be her excuse; and after stating her imprudence, I am happy to add, that I owed the knowledge of it to herself.
austen|I shall not sport with your impatience, by reading what he says on that point.
austen|The lootable, however, did not appear.
austen|I shall leave you together.
dickens|If, for a moment, he did feel resigned, then his wife and child who had to live after him, seemed to protest and to make it a selfish thing.
dickens|A fell, uncompromising, murderous businessmeaning there.
dickens|Then, said he of Saint Antoine, with a strange look, you will be answered tomorrow.
dickens|At the same moment, without giving any audible direction to his crew, he ran the galley abroad of us.
austen|Of their all removing to Donwell, Emma had already had her own passing thoughts.
austen|you have had every care and anxiety upon yourself alone.
dickens|Have these men deceived us, and taken us back by another road?
dickens|The postilions, with a thousand gossamer gnats circling about them in lieu of the Furies, quietly mended the points to the lashes of their whips; the valet walked by the horses; the courier was audible, trotting on ahead into the dull distance.
austen|But it must very materially lessen their chance of marrying men of any consideration in the world, replied Darcy.
dickens|You will help me to see him if you can?
austen|Such a friend as Mrs Weston was out of the question.
austen|So she thought at first;but a little consideration convinced her that every thing need not be put off.
austen|The danger, however, was at present so unperceived, that they did not by any means rank as misfortunes with her.
austen|Bingley was punctual to his appointment; and he and Mr Bennet spent the morning together, as had been agreed on.
dickens|Estellas father would believe I had deserted him, would be taken, would die accusing me; even Herbert would doubt me, when he compared the letter I had left for him with the fact that I had called at Miss Havishams gate for only a moment; Joe and Biddy would never know how sorry I had been that night, none would ever know what I had suffered, how true I had meant to be, what an agony I had passed through.
austen|I am by no means of the opinion, I assure you, said he, that a ball of this kind, given by a young man of character, to respectable people, can have any evil tendency; and I am so far from objecting to dancing myself, that I shall hope to be honoured with the hands of all my fair cousins in the course of the evening; and I take this opportunity of soliciting yours, Miss Elizabeth, for the two first dances especially, a preference which I trust my cousin Jane will attribute to the right cause, and not to any disrespect for her.
dickens|Cries in exaltation of the wellknown good physician rent the hall.
dickens|said the Marquis, glancing round the luxurious room.
dickens|What did you say?
austen|Mr Knightley cannot stop.
austen|How to understand the deceptions she had been thus practising on herself, and living under!
dickens|The halfdozen who were peering at the chain were still among the wheels, like sheep; the wheels turned so suddenly that they were lucky to save their skins and bones; they had very little else to save, or they might not have been so fortunate.
dickens|A frowzy mourning of soot and smoke attired this forlorn creation of Barnard, and it had strewn ashes on its head, and was undergoing penance and humiliation as a mere dusthole.
dickens|The Aged was so delighted to work the drawbridge, that I made no offer to assist him, but stood quiet until Wemmick had come across, and had presented me to Miss Skiffins; a lady by whom he was accompanied.
dickens|By G, its Death!
austen|Upon my word, said Mrs Gardiner, I begin to be of your uncles opinion.
austen|A mind lively and at ease, can do with seeing nothing, and can see nothing that does not answer.
dickens|Ten oclock at night?
austen|But you, who are so extremely fond of itthere can be no danger, surely?
dickens|I suppose theres nothing to be done, exclaimed Camilla, but comply and depart.
austen|But we must stem the tide of malice, and pour into the wounded bosoms of each other the balm of sisterly consolation.
austen|At one time Patty came to say she thought the kitchen chimney wanted sweeping.
austen|It is impossible to sayYes, indeed, I quite understanddearest Janes prospectsthat is, I do not mean.
dickens|Hob and nob, returned the sergeant.
dickens|The answer was always the same Almost eighteen years.
dickens|I am not so unreasonable, sir, as to think you at all responsible for my mistakes and wrong conclusions; but I always supposed it was Miss Havisham.
austen|You, who have been hearing and seeing so much of late on these subjects, who must have been so deep in the business on Miss Campbells accountwe shall not excuse your being indifferent about Mr Elton and Miss Hawkins.
austen|I see what a life I am to lead among you.
dickens|I tried to persuade myself that it was so,as, indeed, it might easily be.
austen|cried Elizabeth, when she had finished.
austen|He had been detained by a temporary increase of illness in her; a nervous seizure, which had lasted some hoursand he had quite given up every thought of coming, till very late;and had he known how hot a ride he should have, and how late, with all his hurry, he must be, he believed he should not have come at all.
dickens|I would almost sooner have seen the dear boy lying in his  I said so!
dickens|Ive had a firm mind and a firm will to have your life, since you was down here at your sisters burying.
austen|Only one more, papa; only for Mr Elton.
austen|Emma perceived that the nature of his gallantry was a little selfwilled, and that he would rather oppose than lose the pleasure of dancing with her; but she took the compliment, and forgave the rest.
dickens|He bent over the golden head, and put the rosy lips to his, and folded her in his arms.
austen|He walked here, and he walked there, fancying himself so very great!
austen|Oh, yes!
austen|I do not know whether I ever before mentioned to you my feelings on this subject; but I will not leave the country without confiding them, and I trust you will not esteem them unreasonable.
dickens|Whats coming on?
dickens|Come into the dark room here, and let us have one final word alone.
austen|He has given in all his debts; I hope at least he has not deceived us.
austen|We have tried two or three subjects already without success, and what we are to talk of next I cannot imagine.
austen|It was weather which might fairly confine every body at home; and though she hoped and believed him to be really taking comfort in some society or other, it was very pleasant to have her father so well satisfied with his being all alone in his own house, too wise to stir out; and to hear him say to Mr Knightley, whom no weather could keep entirely from them,  Ah!
austen|You are a very warm friend to Mr Martin; but, as I said before, are unjust to Harriet.
dickens|Which is she?
austen|But slyness seems the fashion.
austen|united, what reverse we have!
dickens|His face had become frozen, as it were, in a very curious look at Darnay an intent look, deepening into a frown of dislike and distrust, not even unmixed with fear.
dickens|Ah!
austen|His consenting to marry her is a proof, I will believe, that he is come to a right way of thinking.
dickens|He touched one of the bottles without looking at it or speaking, and I made him some hot rum and water.
austen|Our part of London is very superior to most others!
austen|My avowed one, or what I avowed to myself, was to see whether your sister were still partial to Bingley, and if she were, to make the confession to him which I have since made.
dickens|I said to Biddy we would walk a little farther, and we did so, and the summer afternoon toned down into the summer evening, and it was very beautiful.
dickens|He was not to come down till he saw us.
dickens|I thanked him gratefully, and asked, Might I speak to him, if he can hear me?
austen|The kindhearted, gentle Mrs Weston had left her seat to join him and say, Do not you dance, Mr Elton?
dickens|You saw him, sir?
dickens|Her reverting to this tone as if our association were forced upon us, and we were mere puppets, gave me pain; but everything in our intercourse did give me pain.
dickens|I wish to be quite right, Mr Jaggers, and to keep to your directions; so I thought I had better ask.
austen|I had once had some thought of fixing in town myselffor I am fond of superior society; but I did not feel quite certain that the air of London would agree with Lady Lucas.
austen|One half of the world cannot understand the pleasures of the other.
dickens|Now lookee here!
austen|So I begged he would notfor really as to ours being gone, I could not absolutely say that we had a great many leftit was but half a dozen indeed; but they should be all kept for Jane; and I could not at all bear that he should be sending us more, so liberal as he had been already; and Jane said the same.
dickens|He confirms me.
dickens|No matter, the number, said Defarge.
dickens|Will you render me a little help?
austen|It appeared to her merely the suggestion of Carolines interested wishes, and she could not for a moment suppose that those wishes, however openly or artfully spoken, could influence a young man so totally independent of everyone.
dickens|I will write too, andBut stay!
dickens|And now, those six days which were to have run out so slowly, had run out fast and were gone, and tomorrow looked me in the face more steadily than I could look at it.
dickens|Well show em another pair of shoes than that, Pip; wont us?
dickens|She is yours!
austen|They saw him often, and to his other recommendations was now added that of general unreserve.
dickens|Ill tell you something more, wolf.
dickens|The House itself was to be sold as old building materials, and pulled down.
austen|Miss Woodhouse, this is not like our friend Knightley!
dickens|the poor Gaspard!
dickens|But the house was not deserted, and the best parlor seemed to be in use, for there were white curtains fluttering in its window, and the window was open and gay with flowers.
dickens|The drunken patriot had them in his cap, and produced them.
austen|They would be married, and settled either at or near Enscombe.
austen|No objection was raised on the fathers side; the young man was treated liberally; it was all as it should be and as Emma became acquainted with Robert Martin, who was now introduced at Hartfield, she fully acknowledged in him all the appearance of sense and worth which could bid fairest for her little friend.
austen|I am not in the least ashamed of my meaning.
dickens|The day was very hot, and heaps of flies, who were extending their inquisitive and adventurous perquisitions into all the glutinous little glasses near madame, fell dead at the bottom.
austen|It was well that he took every bodys joy for granted, or he might not have thought either Mr Woodhouse or Mr Knightley particularly delighted.
dickens|The shape of the letters on my fathers, gave me an odd idea that he was a square, stout, dark man, with curly black hair.
austen|At least, you should not remind your mother of inviting him.
dickens|This pain of the mind was much harder to strive against than any bodily pain I suffered; and Herbert, seeing that, did his utmost to hold my attention engaged.
dickens|He would sit and talk to me in the old confidence, and with the old simplicity, and in the old unassertive protecting way, so that I would half believe that all my life since the days of the old kitchen was one of the mental troubles of the fever that was gone.
dickens|Dont speak of me to her.
austen|Elizabeth again, and more seriously assured her of its truth.
austen|Her inquiries after her sister were not very favourably answered.
austen|Do you play and sing, Miss Bennet?
austen|I must have employment and society.
dickens|However, said Joe, rising to replenish the fire; heres the Dutchclock a working himself up to being equal to strike Eight of em, and shes not come home yet!
dickens|I am greatly changed.
dickens|And if it is to gain her over, I should thinkbut you know bestshe was not worth gaining over.
austen|What relates to yourself, is as follows Having thus offered you the sincere congratulations of Mrs Collins and myself on this happy event, let me now add a short hint on the subject of another; of which we have been advertised by the same authority.
austen|Upon my word, my dear, I do not know, for I never heard the subject talked of.
dickens|Had I given Joe no reason to doubt my constancy, and to think that in prosperity I should grow cold to him and cast him off?
dickens|Having purchased a few small articles of grocery, and a measure of oil for the lamp, Miss Pross bethought herself of the wine they wanted.
dickens|Brave and generous friend, will you let me ask you one last question?
dickens|At any particular time, Miss Havisham?
dickens|Dont you see she will fall!
austen|She saw the indelicacy of putting himself forward as he had done, and the inconsistency of his professions with his conduct.
dickens|Madame Defarge poured it out for him, took to her knitting again, and hummed a little song over it.
austen|I never had the smallest, I assure you.
austen|If she has it now, you have given it.
austen|Mrs John Knightley is easily alarmed, and might be made unhappy about her sister.
dickens|Let me carry through the rest of my misdirected life, the remembrance that I opened my heart to you, last of all the world; and that there was something left in me at this time which you could deplore and pity.
austen|She seems quite recovered now.
austen|She was no sooner in possession of it than, hurrying into the little copse, where she was least likely to be interrupted, she sat down on one of the benches and prepared to be happy; for the length of the letter convinced her that it did not contain a denial.
austen|Mr Gardiner would be prevented by business from setting out till a fortnight later in July, and must be in London again within a month, and as that left too short a period for them to go so far, and see so much as they had proposed, or at least to see it with the leisure and comfort they had built on, they were obliged to give up the Lakes, and substitute a more contracted tour, and, according to the present plan, were to go no farther northwards than Derbyshire.
dickens|Woho!
dickens|As I am at home myself, said Mr Lorry, Ill go upstairs.
dickens|You go with him?
dickens|No mans life here is worth purchase.
austen|Mr Knightley had been telling him something about brewing sprucebeer, and he wanted to put it down; but when he took out his pencil, there was so little lead that he soon cut it all away, and it would not do, so you lent him another, and this was left upon the table as good for nothing.
austen|After a little thinking, and a very tender sigh, he added,  Ah!
austen|Soft is the very word for her eyeof all epithets, the justest that could be given.
austen|Where would be the use of his bringing us a charade made by a friend upon a mermaid or a shark?
dickens|Even after that crisis in our affairs, he got up and turned round and round confusedly a few times, not knowing where I was; but finally went on his knees to his sponge and threw it up at the same time panting out, That means you have won.
dickens|Yes, Jerry, repeated Mr Cruncher sitting down to tea.
dickens|He was tearing himself apart from her.
dickens|Had they conferred together?
dickens|They have but one, and its Midnight Murder, and Mischief.
dickens|The devoutest person could have rendered no greater homage to the efficacy of an honest prayer than he did in this distrust of his wife.
dickens|Something clicked in his throat as if he had works in him like a clock, and was going to strike.
austen|She has taken it into her head that Enscombe is too cold for her.
austen|Emma could not feel a doubt of having given Harriets fancy a proper direction and raised the gratitude of her young vanity to a very good purpose, for she found her decidedly more sensible than before of Mr Eltons being a remarkably handsome man, with most agreeable manners; and as she had no hesitation in following up the assurance of his admiration by agreeable hints, she was soon pretty confident of creating as much liking on Harriets side, as there could be any occasion for.
austen|Just as they always dovery vulgar.
austen|and she had difficulty in behaving with temper.
dickens|said Mr Lorry; what is this despondency in the brave little breast?
dickens|I am not to be buried there, prejudged, and without any means of presenting my case?
dickens|Say so!
dickens|always joined in the same report.
dickens|He replied, certainly not, and that the lodger was Mr Campbell.
austen|cried Emma.
austen|But Jane knows, as well as I do, what Wickham really is.
austen|There is one subject, he replied, I hope but one, on which we do not think alike.
austen|Nothing was wanting but to be happy when they got there.
austen|Wellif you advise it.
austen|But it is, returned she; for Mrs Long has just been here, and she told me all about it.
dickens|Name of Clara, said Herbert.
austen|There was now employment for the whole partyfor though they could not all talk, they could all eat; and the beautiful pyramids of grapes, nectarines, and peaches soon collected them round the table.
austen|and to see you in such excellent looks!
austen|why not your honour!
austen|He left Netherfield for London, on the day following, as you, I am certain, remember, with the design of soon returning.
austen|But these things happen so often!
austen|For the present, the whole affair was to be completely a secret.
austen|This sensation of listlessness, weariness, stupidity, this disinclination to sit down and employ myself, this feeling of every things being dull and insipid about the house!
austen|There she was welcomed, with the utmost delight, by her father, who had been trembling for the dangers of a solitary drive from Vicarage Laneturning a corner which he could never bear to think ofand in strange handsa mere common coachmanno James; and there it seemed as if her return only were wanted to make every thing go well for Mr John Knightley, ashamed of his illhumour, was now all kindness and attention; and so particularly solicitous for the comfort of her father, as to seemif not quite ready to join him in a basin of gruelperfectly sensible of its being exceedingly wholesome; and the day was concluding in peace and comfort to all their little party, except herself.
dickens|As I cleared, Joe cleared, and it seemed as though he had sympathetically arrived at a resolution too.
dickens|Climbing to a high chamber in a well of houses, he threw himself down in his clothes on a neglected bed, and its pillow was wet with wasted tears.
austen|We have never been there above once since the new approach was made; but still I have no doubt that James will take you very safely.
austen|He is the best landlord, and the best master, said she, that ever lived; not like the wild young men nowadays, who think of nothing but themselves.
dickens|Serve a friend with it, and you may know the end of it too,but its a less pleasant and profitable end.
austen|Mrs Long said so too, for I asked her whether you did not.
dickens|I will not say with me, though he had business relations with me many years ago, and we are now intimate; I will say with the fair daughter to whom he is so devotedly attached, and who is so devotedly attached to him?
austen|I must, I will tell you truths while I can.
dickens|We both knew that I had but to propose anything, and he would consent.
dickens|Tell her that more depends upon it than she dare believe, or hope.
austen|Elizabeth had mentioned her name to her mother on her ladyships entrance, though no request of introduction had been made.
dickens|Mr Pip, he replied, with gravity, Walworth is one place, and this office is another.
austen|You have withheld the advantages which you must know to have been designed for him.
dickens|And if I adored her before, I now doubly adore her.
dickens|I wish I was his master!
dickens|If she tears your heart to pieces,and as it gets older and stronger it will tear deeper,love her, love her, love her!
dickens|Did you hear anything of his circumstances, Joe?
austen|Fetch Miss Bates.
austen|After some attempts, therefore, to be permitted to begin again, they were obliged to thank Mrs Weston, look sorrowful, and have done.
austen|They arrived.
austen|Of Mr Darcy it was now a matter of anxiety to think well; and, as far as their acquaintance reached, there was no fault to find.
dickens|You brought your adoration and your portmanteau here together.
austen|Such another small basin of thin gruel as his own was all that he could, with thorough selfapprobation, recommend; though he might constrain himself, while the ladies were comfortably clearing the nicer things, to say  Mrs Bates, let me propose your venturing on one of these eggs.
dickens|Then, we will take him a ride into the country, and dine there, and all will be well.
austen|She will be married at sixteen!
austen|Some laughed, and answered goodhumouredly.
austen|But now suppose as much as you choose; give a loose rein to your fancy, indulge your imagination in every possible flight which the subject will afford, and unless you believe me actually married, you cannot greatly err.
austen|Are you not diverted?
dickens|cried my sister, with a mollified glance at Mr Pumblechook.
austen|In vain did Elizabeth attempt to make her reasonable, and Jane to make her resigned.
austen|The note was immediately dispatched, and its contents as quickly complied with.
austen|She seems a very pleasant young woman.
austen|But he found, in reply to this question, that Wickham still cherished the hope of more effectually making his fortune by marriage in some other country.
dickens|Its yourn.
austen|If we feel for the wretched, enough to do all we can for them, the rest is empty sympathy, only distressing to ourselves.
dickens|I imparted to Mr Jaggers my design of keeping him in ignorance of the fate of his wealth.
austen|The latter was thinking only of his breakfast.
dickens|and Get up, Mrs Joe!
austen|We must not allow them to be verified in sweet Jane Fairfax.
austen|I have taken some pains for your sake, and for Robert Martins sake, whom I have always had reason to believe as much in love with her as ever, to get acquainted with her.
austen|Oh!
austen|If we set the example, many will follow it as far as they can; though all have not our situations.
austen|Can you trust me with such flatterers?
austen|They both set off, and the conjectures of the remaining three continued, though with little satisfaction, till the door was thrown open and their visitor entered.
dickens|The crisp air, the sunlight, the movement on the river, and the moving river itself,the road that ran with us, seeming to sympathize with us, animate us, and encourage us on,freshened me with new hope.
austen|Then changing from a frown to a smileNo, do not tell meI do not want to know what you mean.
austen|Mr Elton certainly did not very well know what to say.
austen|But her commendation, though costing her some trouble, could by no means satisfy Mr Collins, and he was very soon obliged to take her ladyships praise into his own hands.
dickens|Here another burst of feeling.
austen|Mr Knightley shook his head at her.
austen|She gained on them, however, involuntarily the childs pace was quick, and theirs rather slow; and she was the more concerned at it, from their being evidently in a conversation which interested them.
dickens|I had filled up the bottle from the tarwater jug.
austen|She got up, and ran out of the room; and returned no more, till she heard them passing through the hall to the dining parlour.
dickens|How should I know?
dickens|As I intended to repeat it after a while, and as it was necessary to watch its influence, I then sat down by the side of the bed.
dickens|began Defarge.
austen|He was the son of Mr Westonhe was continually hereI always found him very pleasantand, in short, for with a sigh let me swell out the causes ever so ingeniously, they all centre in this at lastmy vanity was flattered, and I allowed his attentions.
dickens|Waive that, a moment, said Mr Jaggers, and ask another.
austen|cried Mrs Gardiner, whose curiosity as to the mode of her intelligence was all alive.
austen|When it was thus settled on her sisters side, Emma proposed it to her friend, and found her very persuadable.
austen|I should be extremely displeased if Wright were to send us up such a dinner, as could make me regret having asked more than Jane Fairfax to partake of it.
austen|The attachment of Frank Churchill and Jane Fairfax became commonplace, threadbare, stale in the comparison, exciting no surprize, presenting no disparity, affording nothing to be said or thought.
dickens|Yes, returned Herbert, and you may suppose how mild it makes his gout.
austen|Oh!
austen|There was a little blush, and then this answer,  I must not hope to be ever situated as you are, in the midst of every dearest connexion, and therefore I cannot expect that simply growing older should make me indifferent about letters.
austen|Since her fathers death, her home has been London, where a lady lives with her, and superintends her education.
dickens|I think Ive got a bright new shilling somewhere in my pocket, and if I have, the boy shall have it.
austen|Why did you not seek legal redress?
austen|A hasty and imprudent attachment may arisebut there is generally time to recover from it afterwards.
austen|Are you well, my Emma?
dickens|Lets get at it.
dickens|And the communication I have got to make is, that he has great expectations.
austen|She wanted to ascertain the feelings of each of her visitors; she wanted to compose her own, and to make herself agreeable to all; and in the latter object, where she feared most to fail, she was most sure of success, for those to whom she endeavoured to give pleasure were prepossessed in her favour.
dickens|Me to the North, and you to the South!
dickens|Slightly observant of the smoky lights; of the people, pipe in mouth, playing with limp cards and yellow dominoes; of the one barebreasted, barearmed, sootbegrimed workman reading a journal aloud, and of the others listening to him; of the weapons worn, or laid aside to be resumed; of the two or three customers fallen forward asleep, who in the popular highshouldered shaggy black spencer looked, in that attitude, like slumbering bears or dogs; the two outlandish customers approached the counter, and showed what they wanted.
dickens|Neither did he call it a curious coincidence that true patriotism was his only motive too.
dickens|His room must be like a chandlers shop.
dickens|It matters not what stranded ships repairing in dry docks I lost myself among, what old hulls of ships in course of being knocked to pieces, what ooze and slime and other dregs of tide, what yards of shipbuilders and shipbreakers, what rusty anchors blindly biting into the ground, though for years off duty, what mountainous country of accumulated casks and timber, how many ropewalks that were not the Old Green Copper.
dickens|He left Jerry with them, as a figure to fill a doorway that would bear considerable knocking on the head, and returned to his own occupations.
dickens|Muttering that I would make the inquiry whether I had time to walk with him, I went into the office, and ascertained from the clerk with the nicest precision and much to the trying of his temper, the earliest moment at which the coach could be expected,which I knew beforehand, quite as well as he.
austen|Miss Taylor married.
austen|Mr Gardiner, highly amused by the kind of family prejudice to which he attributed her excessive commendation of her master, soon led again to the subject; and she dwelt with energy on his many merits as they proceeded together up the great staircase.
austen|Not think they will do each other any good!
austen|Pardon me for interrupting you, madam, cried Mr Collins; but if she is really headstrong and foolish, I know not whether she would altogether be a very desirable wife to a man in my situation, who naturally looks for happiness in the marriage state.
dickens|Immediately after dark, I should hope.
austen|She had gained her point, and had time to consider of it.
dickens|Dear me!
austen|Have you never happened to see her there?
dickens|It seems, said Estella, very calmly, that there are sentiments, fancies,I dont know how to call them,which I am not able to comprehend.
dickens|Gargerys power to part you and Tickler in sunders were not fully equal to his inclinations.
austen|I was very much pleased with all that he said.
dickens|Whats death?
dickens|You shouldnt have lost your temper.
dickens|Not a particle of evidence, Pip, said Mr Jaggers, shaking his head and gathering up his skirts.
dickens|A likely thing, too!
austen|Mrs Bennet wondered at their coming, and thought them very wrong to give so much trouble, and was sure Jane would have caught cold again.
dickens|Joe scooped his eyes with his disengaged wrist, as if he were bent on gouging himself, but said not another word.
dickens|In point of meritorious character, the two things seemed about equal.
austen|It originated in Mrs Gardiner, who, fatigued by the exercise of the morning, found Elizabeths arm inadequate to her support, and consequently preferred her husbands.
dickens|I may go on?
austen|what do you mean?
austen|He had despaired at one period; he had received such an injunction to caution and silence, as for the time crushed every hope;she had begun by refusing to hear him.
austen|Undoubtedly if you wish it, I will endeavour to persuade them both.
dickens|A curious place, Handel; isnt it?
austen|No indeed; I felt nothing but surprise.
dickens|How far might you call yourselves from the marshes, hereabouts?
dickens|I have cast up the years of her age, year after year.
austen|When all this was resolved on, he returned again to his friends, who were still staying at Pemberley; but it was agreed that he should be in London once more when the wedding took place, and all money matters were then to receive the last finish.
austen|When Frank left us, continued he, it was quite uncertain when we might see him again, which makes this days news doubly welcome.
austen|Gone to Mr Woodhouses.
dickens|Exactly what was perfectly manifest to me at the moment.
austen|I do not mean to say, however, that you might not have made discoveries.
dickens|But what else could be expected!
dickens|TwentyThree.
dickens|We got a chair out, ready for Mrs Joes alighting, and stirred up the fire that they might see a bright window, and took a final survey of the kitchen that nothing might be out of its place.
austen|Mrs Jenkinson was chiefly employed in watching how little Miss de Bourgh ate, pressing her to try some other dish, and fearing she was indisposed.
austen|I am very sure that I never said any thing of either to the other, which both might not have heard.
dickens|Herbert himself had come of age eight months before me.
dickens|said he, biting the side of his great forefinger as he frowned at me, you behave yourself!
austen|Elizabeth obeyed, and running into her own room for her parasol, attended her noble guest downstairs.
austen|You blamed me for coming?
austen|A great deal more passed at the other table.
austen|, Knightley, Jane, and myself.
dickens|Is that confidence to be imparted to me soon?
austen|He sat a little while in doubt.
dickens|Let it be removed when he is not there; let him miss his old companion after an absence.
dickens|It is not much to the purpose whether a gate in that garden wall which I had scrambled up to peep over on the last occasion was, on that last occasion, open or shut.
austen|I am not particularly speaking of such a case as you have supposed about Mr Bingley.
dickens|It was a dry cold night, and the wind blew keenly, and the frost was white and hard.
dickens|I know it, and have heard my father say so.
austen|Were it for nothing but his love of you, I must always have esteemed him; but now, as Bingleys friend and your husband, there can be only Bingley and yourself more dear to me.
austen|Aye, thats very just, indeed, thats very properly said.
dickens|The fellow was brought, cap in hand, and the other fellows closed round to look and listen, in the manner of the people at the Paris fountain.
austen|The next was in these words I do not pretend to regret anything I shall leave in Hertfordshire, except your society, my dearest friend; but we will hope, at some future period, to enjoy many returns of that delightful intercourse we have known, and in the meanwhile may lessen the pain of separation by a very frequent and most unreserved correspondence.
dickens|That done, with many added sentences of grateful friendship and warm attachment, all was done.
austen|But she had no reason to fear Mr and Mrs Gardiners curiosity; it was not their wish to force her communication.
austen|Elizabeth felt Janes pleasure.
austen|My nephews and nieces!
austen|She means it, I know.
austen|Poor Perry is bilious, and he has not time to take care of himselfhe tells me he has not time to take care of himselfwhich is very sadbut he is always wanted all round the country.
dickens|Regarding that as done, is there nothing I can do for you yourself?
austen|Emma had feelings, less of curiosity than of pride or propriety, to make her resolve on not being the last to pay her respects; and she made a point of Harriets going with her, that the worst of the business might be gone through as soon as possible.
dickens|When I had ordered everything I wanted, I directed my steps towards Pumblechooks, and, as I approached that gentlemans place of business, I saw him standing at his door.
dickens|Come!
dickens|Churchyard, indeed!
dickens|Then, I saw that his head was furrowed and bald, and that the long irongray hair grew only on its sides.
dickens|No, Pip, returned Joe, still looking at the fire, and holding his knees tight, as if he had private information that they intended to make off somewhere, which I left it to yourself, Pip.
austen|I treat you without ceremony, Mr Knightley.
austen|Her father was walking about the room, looking grave and anxious.
dickens|I wouldnt have incommoded none of you, if Id had my way.
austen|It is too unlikely, for me to believe it without proof.
dickens|Some halfdozen other particular friends promptly hauled him out, and presented him breathless to Monsieur the Marquis.
austen|He meant to walk with her, she found.
austen|This discovery laid many smaller matters open.
dickens|I felt that the pale young gentlemans blood was on my head, and that the Law would avenge it.
dickens|And it was such vapouring all about his ears, like a troublesome confusion of blood in his own head, added to a latent uneasiness in his mind, which had already made Charles Darnay restless, and which still kept him so.
dickens|They were all displayed in that chamber of the Castle into which I had been first inducted, and which served, not only as the general sittingroom but as the kitchen too, if I might judge from a saucepan on the hob, and a brazen bijou over the fireplace designed for the suspension of a roastingjack.
dickens|Yes, sir.
dickens|But after I had had my new suit on some half an hour, and had gone through an immensity of posturing with Mr Pumblechooks very limited dressingglass, in the futile endeavor to see my legs, it seemed to fit me better.
dickens|You are not angry with me, Joe?
dickens|I would not have listened for more, if I could have heard more; so I drew away from the window, and sat down in my one chair by the bedside, feeling it very sorrowful and strange that this first night of my bright fortunes should be the loneliest I had ever known.
dickens|O my dear, my dear!
dickens|said Mr Wemmick, looking at me with an approving air.
dickens|In a word, it was impossible for me to separate her, in the past or in the present, from the innermost life of my life.
austen|dear, no, never.
dickens|If it had pleased God to put it in the hard heart of either of the brothers, in all these frightful years, to grant me any tidings of my dearest wifeso much as to let me know by a word whether alive or deadI might have thought that He had not quite abandoned them.
austen|Yes, sometimes he can.
dickens|Might I ask the favour?
austen|Emma was quite relieved, and could presently say, with a little more composure,  You probably have been less surprized than any of us, for you have had your suspicions.
dickens|In this, his prosperity consisted.
austen|But, perhaps he could not in her mothers presence be what he was before her uncle and aunt.
austen|I know him well.
dickens|A faint voice answered something.
dickens|And I felt absolutely certain that this woman was Estellas mother.
austen|What right had he to endeavour to please, as he certainly didto distinguish any one young woman with persevering attention, as he certainly didwhile he really belonged to another?
dickens|It is frightful, messieurs.
dickens|I said I should be delighted to do it.
austen|And so she began inquiring after her directly, saying, I know you cannot have heard from Jane lately, because it is not her time for writing; and when I immediately said, But indeed we have, we had a letter this very morning, I do not know that I ever saw any body more surprized.
dickens|I told her so, as she sat brooding after this outburst.
austen|He must be an oddity, I think, said she.
dickens|said Mr Jaggers, knitting his brows.
austen|Do not tell his father, but that young man is not quite the thing.
austen|Her arm was pressed again, as he added, in a more broken and subdued accent, The feelings of the warmest friendshipIndignationAbominable scoundrel!
dickens|Do you want to be a gentleman, to spite her or to gain her over?
dickens|Cowering forward for warmth and to make me a screen against the wind, the convicts were closer to me than before.
dickens|Did I say we could depend upon no better man?
dickens|In the roaring and raging of the conflagration, a redhot wind, driving straight from the infernal regions, seemed to be blowing the edifice away.
dickens|We are already friends, I hope.
dickens|In this car of triumph, not even the Doctors entreaties could prevent his being carried to his home on mens shoulders, with a confused sea of red caps heaving about him, and casting up to sight from the stormy deep such wrecks of faces, that he more than once misdoubted his mind being in confusion, and that he was in the tumbril on his way to the Guillotine.
dickens|It had been a fine bright day, but had become foggy as the sun dropped, and I had had to feel my way back among the shipping, pretty carefully.
austen|Mr Knightleys words dwelt with her.
dickens|Whether or no, I wont be prayed agin, I tell you.
dickens|I said I could manage it,would manage it,and he was so very much pleased by my acquiescence, that I was pleased too.
austen|In that case he would return no more.
dickens|I was never allowed a candle to light me to bed, and, as I went upstairs in the dark, with my head tingling,from Mrs Joes thimble having played the tambourine upon it, to accompany her last words,I felt fearfully sensible of the great convenience that the hulks were handy for me.
dickens|Her father answered, with a cheerful firmness of conviction he could scarcely have assumed, Quite sure, my darling!
dickens|He nodded.
austen|There does, indeed, seem as little to tempt her to break her resolution at present, said Mrs Weston, as can well be; and while she is so happy at Hartfield, I cannot wish her to be forming any attachment which would be creating such difficulties on poor Mr Woodhouses account.
dickens|said the stranger to Mr Wopsle, when the reading was done, you have settled it all to your own satisfaction, I have no doubt?
austen|cried she playfully.
austen|Mrs Collins, you must send a servant with them.
dickens|I thought he never would have done wiping his feet, and that I must have gone out to lift him off the mat, but at last he came in.
austen|She recovered her voice.
dickens|I am yellow skin and bone.
austen|She was the instigator.
dickens|I really do not know whether I felt that I did this for Estellas sake, or whether I was glad to transfer to the man in whose preservation I was so much concerned some rays of the romantic interest that had so long surrounded me.
austen|She would not even wish for a renewal of his attentions.
dickens|It happened, that the action turned his face to that side of the court which was on his left.
dickens|The prisoner came forward directly.
dickens|It was the certainty of this fact that impelled me to offer the hint.
dickens|To be suffocated?
austen|Proportions, foreshortening.
austen|Let me thank you again and again, in the name of all my family, for that generous compassion which induced you to take so much trouble, and bear so many mortifications, for the sake of discovering them.
austen|I have some hope, resumed he, of my uncles being persuaded to pay a visit at Randalls; he wants to be introduced to her.
austen|But, however, he did not admire her at all; indeed, nobody can, you know; and he seemed quite struck with Jane as she was going down the dance.
austen|Such a conclusion could not pass unanswered by Mrs Weston.
austen|Emma and Harriet professed very high expectations of pleasure from it; and Mr Weston, unasked, promised to get Frank over to join them, if possible; a proof of approbation and gratitude which could have been dispensed with.
austen|I mention no names; but happy the man who changes Emma for Harriet!
austen|Emma was gratified, and would soon have shewn no want of words, if the sound of Mrs Eltons voice from the sittingroom had not checked her, and made it expedient to compress all her friendly and all her congratulatory sensations into a very, very earnest shake of the hand.
austen|He told Patty this, but bid her not mind it, and be sure not to say any thing to us about it, for Mrs Hodges would be cross sometimes, and as long as so many sacks were sold, it did not signify who ate the remainder.
dickens|Is that it?
dickens|But he never come nigh himself.
dickens|The watchmaker, always poring over a little desk with a magnifyingglass at his eye, and always inspected by a group of smockfrocks poring over him through the glass of his shopwindow, seemed to be about the only person in the High Street whose trade engaged his attention.
dickens|No, gentlemen; hell always show em a clean pair of heels very early in the scuffle, and sneak away.
dickens|I knew my way to the Battery, pretty straight, for I had been down there on a Sunday with Joe, and Joe, sitting on an old gun, had told me that when I was prentice to him, regularly bound, we would have such Larks there!
austen|Do you often dance at St.
dickens|It seems to be one of the kind smoothings and preparings of the way.
austen|In describing to her all the grandeur of Lady Catherine and her mansion, with occasional digressions in praise of his own humble abode, and the improvements it was receiving, he was happily employed until the gentlemen joined them; and he found in Mrs Phillips a very attentive listener, whose opinion of his consequence increased with what she heard, and who was resolving to retail it all among her neighbours as soon as she could.
dickens|And dont you remember Tickler?
dickens|Far rather would I never see you again, dear Solomon, though I have ever loved you truly, and ever shall.
dickens|Excuse me, ladies and gentleman, said the sergeant, but as I have mentioned at the door to this smart young shaver, which he hadnt, I am on a chase in the name of the king, and I want the blacksmith.
dickens|I said I thought that would do handsomely.
austen|I was wrong, he continued, in talking of its being broke to you.
austen|I am sure she will be here presently.
austen|I certainly do forget to think of her, said Emma, as having ever been any thing but my friend and my dearest friend.
dickens|When my sister found that Biddy was very quick to understand her, this mysterious sign reappeared on the slate.
dickens|Carton, standing over him with his hand in his breast, looked down.
dickens|Why, heres a J, said Joe, and a O equal to anythink!
austen|Mr Weston is rather an easy, cheerfultempered man, than a man of strong feelings; he takes things as he finds them, and makes enjoyment of them somehow or other, depending, I suspect, much more upon what is called society for his comforts, that is, upon the power of eating and drinking, and playing whist with his neighbours five times a week, than upon family affection, or any thing that home affords.
dickens|Do you comprehend the imaginary case?
dickens|A wonderful corner for echoes, it has been remarked, that corner where the Doctor lived.
austen|Very well.
austen|They are but too apt to give up music.
austen|She was proceeding directly to her favourite walk, when the recollection of Mr Darcys sometimes coming there stopped her, and instead of entering the park, she turned up the lane, which led farther from the turnpikeroad.
dickens|My right hand was not so badly burnt but that I could move the fingers.
dickens|Although the only coherent part of the latter piece of literature were the opening lines.
dickens|How long?
austen|Which do you mean?
austen|noand Emma could just catch the words, so superior to Mr Elton!
dickens|To the eyes of Mr Jeremiah Cruncher, sitting on his stool in Fleetstreet with his grisly urchin beside him, a vast number and variety of objects in movement were every day presented.
austen|C.
austen|I must have asked Miss Fairfax, and her languid dancing would not have agreed with me, after yours.
dickens|I developed her into what she is, that she might be loved.
austen|What arises from discretion must be honoured.
austen|I am very little ableHave you a chair, maam?
dickens|The buzz of the great flies was loud again.
dickens|Ill tell you why, Pip.
dickens|He took the lamp in his hand, crossed the two intervening outer rooms, and opened it.
dickens|Only last night, after you had left us, when I was talking to Lucie  When you were talking to Lucie, Mr Lorry repeated.
dickens|cried Joe.
dickens|Five pounds?
austen|They now walked on in silence, each of them deep in thought.
austen|I shall have many fellowmourners for the ball, if not for Frank Churchill; but Mr Knightley will be happy.
dickens|But, in the ocean of faces where every fierce and furious expression was in vivid life, there were two groups of faceseach seven in numberso fixedly contrasting with the rest, that never did sea roll which bore more memorable wrecks with it.
dickens|I presently asked, with increasing diffidence.
austen|I told you that I did not wonder at your attachment; that considering the service he had rendered you, it was extremely naturaland you agreed to it, expressing yourself very warmly as to your sense of that service, and mentioning even what your sensations had been in seeing him come forward to your rescue.
austen|and A.
austen|And there would be poor Emma in the carriage behind.
dickens|Mr Cruncher came forward sideways, with one of his shoulders in advance of him.
austen|Why, to be sure, said Mr Woodhouseyes, certainlyI cannot deny that Mrs Weston, poor Mrs Weston, does come and see us pretty oftenbut thenshe is always obliged to go away again.
dickens|Unprepared as he was for the large pill he had to swallow, he got it down.
dickens|That evil genius, Compeyson, the worst of scoundrels among many scoundrels, knowing of his keeping out of the way at that time and of his reasons for doing so, of course afterwards held the knowledge over his head as a means of keeping him poorer and working him harder.
dickens|I dont hear you, said Miss Pross.
austen|He was not in his best spirits, but seemed trying to improve them; and, at last, made himself talk nonsense very agreeably.
austen|There were some very strong objections against the lady, were Colonel Fitzwilliams words; and those strong objections probably were, her having one uncle who was a country attorney, and another who was in business in London.
dickens|As he held out his hand for the shoe that had been taken from him, Mr Lorry said, still looking steadfastly in his face  Monsieur Manette, do you remember nothing of me?
dickens|Miss Manette!
dickens|Now, I thought very well of it, for three reasons Ill give you.
dickens|But I dont mean in that form, sir, returned Mr Pumblechook, who had an objection to being interrupted; I mean, enjoying himself with his elders and betters, and improving himself with their conversation, and rolling in the lap of luxury.
austen|I never could have an idea of any body elseand so I thought you knew.
dickens|You have always adored her, ever since I have known you.
dickens|returned Estella, with her eyes on me instead.
austen|I told him of all that had occurred to make my former interference in his affairs absurd and impertinent.
dickens|One person of mild and benevolent aspect even gave me a tract ornamented with a woodcut of a malevolent young man fitted up with a perfect sausageshop of fetters, and entitled TO BE READ IN MY CELL.
dickens|The injury to his chest which rendered his breathing extremely painful he thought he had received against the side of the galley.
dickens|But how do I know if he lies?
dickens|Foulon who told my old father that he might eat grass, when I had no bread to give him!
austen|She must be under some sort of penance, inflicted either by the Campbells or herself.
dickens|Such is the fact, certainly, said Defarge.
austen|And you only the second.
dickens|He never looked at the figure before him, without first looking down on this side of himself, then on that, as if he had lost the habit of associating place with sound; he never spoke, without first wandering in this manner, and forgetting to speak.
dickens|I believed not too, for, although in my brooding state I had taken no especial notice of the people behind me, I thought it likely that a face at all disfigured would have attracted my attention.
austen|She is up stairs and will have great satisfaction in seeing you all.
dickens|You can take a hackneycoach at the stagecoach office in London, and come straight to me.
dickens|Daylight at last found them before the wall of Paris.
dickens|I waited for it at the gate.
dickens|When he was gone, and in the course of an evening passed with Miss Pross, the Doctor, and Mr Lorry, Charles Darnay made some mention of this conversation in general terms, and spoke of Sydney Carton as a problem of carelessness and recklessness.
austen|I am sure she will be pleased with the children.
austen|And it cannot be for the value of our custom now, for what is our consumption of bread, you know?
dickens|And one other thing regarding him was whispered in the echoes, which has been whispered by all true echoes for ages and ages.
dickens|His wife explained that she had merely asked a blessing.
austen|The symptoms were favourable.
austen|Jane met her with a smile of such sweet complacency, a glow of such happy expression, as sufficiently marked how well she was satisfied with the occurrences of the evening.
dickens|If I dont bring em here, what does it matter?
austen|You seem but just comeso very obliging of you.
austen|Emma was almost too much astonished to answer; but Mrs Elton hardly waited for the affirmative before she went on.
austen|Let our first effusions be less insupportable than those of the generality of travellers.
austen|What am I to do?
austen|On this subject I have nothing more to say, no other apology to offer.
austen|But when you mentioned Mrs Dixon, I felt how much more probable that it should be the tribute of warm female friendship.
dickens|Mrs Wemmick, more heedful of the future, put her white gloves in her pocket and assumed her green.
dickens|I prefer not to anticipate my communication here; you will impart as much or as little of it as you please to your friends afterwards; I have nothing to do with that.
austen|And rising as she thus spoke, she would have quitted the room, had Mr Collins not thus addressed her  When I do myself the honour of speaking to you next on the subject, I shall hope to receive a more favourable answer than you have now given me; though I am far from accusing you of cruelty at present, because I know it to be the established custom of your sex to reject a man on the first application, and perhaps you have even now said as much to encourage my suit as would be consistent with the true delicacy of the female character.
dickens|Will you come and see her?
austen|You will be adored in Highbury.
austen|The substance of this letter was forwarded to Emma, in a note from Mrs Weston, instantly.
austen|Not that she wanted him to marry.
dickens|Two things at once impressed themselves on Mr Lorry, as important above all others; the first, that this must be kept secret from Lucie; the second, that it must be kept secret from all who knew him.
austen|Oh!
dickens|An errand of generosity brought him here unknown to us; he was stopped at the barrier, and sent to prison.
dickens|Was it dreaded by him?
dickens|The client looked scared, but bewildered too, as if he were unconscious what he had done.
austen|It is almost past belief.
austen|That is not an unnatural surmise, said Fitzwilliam, but it is a lessening of the honour of my cousins triumph very sadly.
dickens|I derived that, from the look they interchanged.
dickens|She said, in a low, distinct, awestricken voice, as if she were saying it in a dream,  I am going to see his Ghost!
dickens|After standing with the bridle over his heavilysplashed arm, until the wheels of the mail were no longer within hearing and the night was quite still again, he turned to walk down the hill.
dickens|The amiable Vengeance added, with a laugh, Yes, my faith!
austen|No, said he, smiling, that is no subject of regret at all.
austen|We must bring her forward.
dickens|When toned down again, the unimpeachable patriot appeared in the witnessbox.
dickens|That there were, still living, people enough who were able and willing to identify him, I could not doubt.
austen|This, on his side, might merely proceed from her not being thought of; but Emma was rather inclined to attribute it to delicacy, and a suspicion, from some appearances, that their friendship were declining.
dickens|High vaulted rooms with cool uncarpeted floors, great dogs upon the hearths for the burning of wood in winter time, and all luxuries befitting the state of a marquis in a luxurious age and country.
austen|This one halfhour had given to each the same precious certainty of being beloved, had cleared from each the same degree of ignorance, jealousy, or distrust.
austen|She would not take a denial.
dickens|How high it was from the ground, how many steps it had, where he would be stood, how he would be touched, whether the touching hands would be dyed red, which way his face would be turned, whether he would be the first, or might be the last these and many similar questions, in nowise directed by his will, obtruded themselves over and over again, countless times.
dickens|Among those few there may be one who loves you even as dearly, though he has not loved you as long, as I.
dickens|Have I ever been so hard with you that you ask me such a cruel question?
dickens|I cautioned him that I must hear no more of that; that he was not at all likely to obtain a pardon; that he was expatriated for the term of his natural life; and that his presenting himself in this country would be an act of felony, rendering him liable to the extreme penalty of the law.
austen|She had scarcely needed her present observation to be satisfied, from the reason of things, that their elopement had been brought on by the strength of her love, rather than by his; and she would have wondered why, without violently caring for her, he chose to elope with her at all, had she not felt certain that his flight was rendered necessary by distress of circumstances; and if that were the case, he was not the young man to resist an opportunity of having a companion.
austen|Here is April come!
dickens|Your lighter boxes of family papers went upstairs into a Barmecide room, that always had a great diningtable in it and never had a dinner, and where, even in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty, the first letters written to you by your old love, or by your little children, were but newly released from the horror of being ogled through the windows, by the heads exposed on Temple Bar with an insensate brutality and ferocity worthy of Abyssinia or Ashantee.
austen|Nobody is healthy in London, nobody can be.
dickens|Figure this to yourself, citizen; he shaved the sixtythree today, in less than two pipes!
dickens|This avenging phantom was ordered to be on duty at eight on Tuesday morning in the hall, it was two feet square, as charged for floorcloth, and Herbert suggested certain things for breakfast that he thought Joe would like.
dickens|So I put them round his neck, and she laid her head down on his shoulder quite content and satisfied.
dickens|The flag had been struck, and the gun had been fired, at the right moment of time, and I felt as snugly cut off from the rest of Walworth as if the moat were thirty feet wide by as many deep.
dickens|Is he changed?
austen|I never saw a more promising inclination; he was growing quite inattentive to other people, and wholly engrossed by her.
austen|Mr Weston was a native of Highbury, and born of a respectable family, which for the last two or three generations had been rising into gentility and property.
dickens|As to whether your name is John Solomon, or Solomon John?
dickens|Silence, patriots!
austen|English verdure, English culture, English comfort, seen under a sun bright, without being oppressive.
austen|I had only my own family to study from.
austen|Emma, I had not thought it possible.
dickens|The influences of his solitary hutlife were upon him besides, and gave him a savage air that no dress could tame; added to these were the influences of his subsequent branded life among men, and, crowning all, his consciousness that he was dodging and hiding now.
austen|This must be a most inconvenient sitting room for the evening, in summer; the windows are full west.
austen|I have heard so much in praise of Mr Frank Churchill.
austen|C.
dickens|For the mothers?
dickens|Wemmick sent him the particulars, I understand, by return of post.
dickens|Tst!
austen|A pretty fortune; and she came in his way.
dickens|Believe this when she first came to me, I meant to save her from misery like my own.
austen|But in every respect, as she saw more of her, she approved her, and was confirmed in all her kind designs.
austen|He readily assured her of his secrecy; again expressed his sorrow for her distress, wished it a happier conclusion than there was at present reason to hope, and leaving his compliments for her relations, with only one serious, parting look, went away.
dickens|You get at your mouth better which after all is the object, and you save a good deal of the attitude of opening oysters, on the part of the right elbow.
austen|It was, indeed, so odd; Harriets behaviour was so extremely odd, that Emma did not know how to understand it.
austen|said he, with a look of doubt.
austen|John told us Mr Darcy was here when you sent for us; was it so?
austen|If you were as much guided by nature in your estimate of men and women, and as little under the power of fancy and whim in your dealings with them, as you are where these children are concerned, we might always think alike.
dickens|Indeed they were at sea, and the ship and crew were in peril of tempest.
austen|Upon my word, Perry has restored her in a wonderful short time!
austen|Oh!
dickens|Monsieur the Marquis cast his eyes over the submissive faces that drooped before him, as the like of himself had drooped before Monseigneur of the Courtonly the difference was, that these faces drooped merely to suffer and not to propitiatewhen a grizzled mender of the roads joined the group.
dickens|At another time, our parcels would come and go, as easily as in businesslike Old England; but now, everything is stopped.
dickens|The stronger will win in the end, but the stronger has to be found out first.
austen|NoIt will not be worth while.
dickens|Estella left me standing near the door, and I stood there until Miss Havisham cast her eyes upon me from the dressingtable.
dickens|As if Mr Lorry had not known it for a fact, years ago, in the quiet corner in Soho, that this precious brother had spent her money and left her!
dickens|It were always a pity as I was so awful dull; but its no more of a pity now, than it wasthis day twelvemonthdont you see?
austen|Yours, very sincerely,  M.
austen|My dear Mr Bennet, replied his wife, how can you be so tiresome!
dickens|Can I take you, Estella!
dickens|Have you ever seen him before?
dickens|There was something so remarkable in the increasing glare of Mr Wopsles eye, and he seemed to be turning so many things over in his mind and to grow so confused, that I could not make it out.
austen|Donwell was famous for its strawberrybeds, which seemed a plea for the invitation but no plea was necessary; cabbagebeds would have been enough to tempt the lady, who only wanted to be going somewhere.
dickens|Yes.
austen|Forgive me for having taken up so much of your time, and accept my best wishes for your health and happiness.
dickens|He remained on the step, half in the coach and half out of; they remained in the road below him.
austen|I wonder my aunt did not tell us of that.
dickens|Which makes it more surprising in my son, said the old man, for he was not brought up to the Law, but to the WineCoopering.
dickens|Your head is cool?
dickens|And, Biddy, it shall rest with you to say whether I shall work at the forge with Joe, or whether I shall try for any different occupation down in this country, or whether we shall go away to a distant place where an opportunity awaits me which I set aside, when it was offered, until I knew your answer.
austen|Mr Woodhouse had so completely made up his mind to the visit, that in spite of the increasing coldness, he seemed to have no idea of shrinking from it, and set forward at last most punctually with his eldest daughter in his own carriage, with less apparent consciousness of the weather than either of the others; too full of the wonder of his own going, and the pleasure it was to afford at Randalls to see that it was cold, and too well wrapt up to feel it.
dickens|The question was addressed to the woodsawyer, who hurriedly replied in the affirmative seizing the occasion to add that he was the most ardent of Republicans, and that he would be in effect the most desolate of Republicans, if anything prevented him from enjoying the pleasure of smoking his afternoon pipe in the contemplation of the droll national barber.
austen|Mr Wickham had received his commission before he left London, and he was to join his regiment at the end of a fortnight.
dickens|And your husbands there!
austen|I hope it is a dry situation, and that her health will be taken good care of.
austen|What a pleasure it is to send ones carriage for a friend!
austen|It is so with some men.
dickens|Yes, yes, my friend,  cried Mr Jaggers, waving his forefinger to stop me as I made a show of protesting its likely enough that you think you wouldnt, but you would.
dickens|Young Jerry very well knew what it would be; but, when he saw it, and saw his honoured parent about to wrench it open, he was so frightened, being new to the sight, that he made off again, and never stopped until he had run a mile or more.
austen|He looked serious, as usual; and, she thought, more as he had been used to look in Hertfordshire, than as she had seen him at Pemberley.
austen|And this belief produced another dread.
austen|When Elizabeth had rejoiced over Wickhams departure she found little other cause for satisfaction in the loss of the regiment.
dickens|Look at her eyes!
austen|I think you will agree with me, turning with a soft air to Emma, I think I shall certainly have your approbation, though Mr Knightley perhaps, from being used to the large parties of London, may not quite enter into our feelings.
dickens|You did good service at the taking of the Bastille, citizen?
dickens|This much, Jerry, with his head becoming more and more spiky as the law terms bristled it, made out with huge satisfaction, and so arrived circuitously at the understanding that the aforesaid, and over and over again aforesaid, Charles Darnay, stood there before him upon his trial; that the jury were swearing in; and that Mr AttorneyGeneral was making ready to speak.
austen|Did not you?
austen|You are not striving to look taller than any body else.
austen|I set off without saying a word, just as I told you.
dickens|I thought I would give up that point too.
austen|If he were quite sincere, if he really tried to come, it was to be inferred that Mrs Churchills removal to London had been of no service to the wilful or nervous part of her disorder.
dickens|Ill show you a wrist, repeated Mr Jaggers, with an immovable determination to show it.
dickens|She might have had the politeness to send that message at first, but its better late than never.
austen|He inquired how far Netherfield was from Meryton; and, after receiving her answer, asked in a hesitating manner how long Mr Darcy had been staying there.
austen|Indeed you did.
dickens|The moment I come to you, take me in, and drive away.
austen|Mrs Hurst sang with her sister, and while they were thus employed, Elizabeth could not help observing, as she turned over some musicbooks that lay on the instrument, how frequently Mr Darcys eyes were fixed on her.
dickens|And you know what wittles is?
dickens|So!
austen|I must put on a few ornaments now, because it is expected of me.
austen|Impossible!
dickens|the President reminded him.
austen|You are not going to be missish, I hope, and pretend to be affronted at an idle report.
austen|From these instructions they were summoned by the arrival of the coach; and with many speeches of thankfulness on Mr Collinss side and as many bows on Sir Williams they departed.
dickens|I dont complain of none, dear boy.
dickens|For the beam across the parlor ceiling at Mill Pond Bank had then ceased to tremble under old Bill Barleys growls and was at peace, and Herbert had gone away to marry Clara, and I was left in sole charge of the Eastern Branch until he brought her back.
austen|Her voice was lost; and she sat down, waiting in great terror till Harriet should answer.
dickens|I am very sorry to see it, and its aits a bad side of human nature.
dickens|It is all the same.
austen|Yours, etc.
dickens|and did.
austen|I am afraid Jane is not very well, said she, but I do not know; they tell me she is well.
austen|But at last your uncle was forced to yield, and instead of being allowed to be of use to his niece, was forced to put up with only having the probable credit of it, which went sorely against the grain; and I really believe your letter this morning gave him great pleasure, because it required an explanation that would rob him of his borrowed feathers, and give the praise where it was due.
austen|And I need not bring the whole family, you know.
dickens|She had been struck with something blunt and heavy, on the head and spine; after the blows were dealt, something heavy had been thrown down at her with considerable violence, as she lay on her face.
austen|Very true, said Harriet.
dickens|Biddy instantly taking the cleverest charge of her as though she had studied her from infancy; Joe became able in some sort to appreciate the greater quiet of his life, and to get down to the Jolly Bargemen now and then for a change that did him good.
dickens|You were a gentlemanly Cove, though Mr Wemmick was again apostrophizing, and you said you could write Greek.
dickens|No.
austen|It gives me pain to speak ill of a Darcy.
austen|In general their evenings were less engaged with friends than their mornings; but one complete dinner engagement, and out of the house too, there was no avoiding, though at Christmas.
dickens|Either I am very stupid, or you are very clever.
austen|She is pretty, and she is good tempered, and that is all.
dickens|It is so difficult to fix a sum, said I, hesitating.
austen|It does relate to him, and I will tell you directly;  resuming her work, and seeming resolved against looking up.
dickens|He besought herthough he added that he knew it was needlessto console her father, by impressing him through every tender means she could think of, with the truth that he had done nothing for which he could justly reproach himself, but had uniformly forgotten himself for their joint sakes.
austen|Harriet was too intent on the lines to hear.
dickens|Having looked at this extinct conflagration and shaken his head, he took my order; which, proving to be merely, Some tea for the lady, sent him out of the room in a very low state of mind.
dickens|The boatswain, unmanned for the first time, respectfully dried his eyes on the Jack, and then cheering up, and addressing Mr Wopsle as Your Honor, solicited permission to take him by the fin.
austen|The sooner every party breaks up, the better.
austen|You told me to observe him carefully, and let his behaviour be the rule of mineand so I have.
austen|Well, here we are at the passage.
dickens|One day soon after the appearance of the chair, Miss Havisham suddenly saying to me, with the impatient movement of her fingers, There, there, there!
austen|You were not by, when I told mamma and the others all about it.
austen|The stain of illegitimacy, unbleached by nobility or wealth, would have been a stain indeed.
austen|I am sure you must have been struck by his awkward look and abrupt manner, and the uncouthness of a voice which I heard to be wholly unmodulated as I stood here.
austen|To be sure, the charade, with its ready witbut then the soft eyesin fact it suited neither; it was a jumble without taste or truth.
dickens|Keep it for me until tomorrow.
austen|But in matters of greater weight, I may suffer from want of money.
austen|He knows I have a thorough regard for him and all his family, and, I believe, considers me as one of his best friends.
dickens|Then, a burst of gratitude came upon me, that she should be destined for me, once the blacksmiths boy.
austen|At any rate, she cannot grow many degrees worse, without authorising us to lock her up for the rest of her life.
dickens|And she did.
dickens|I confide this paper, in the writing of Doctor Manette, to the hands of the President.
dickens|He nodded assent, and pulled out his thiefdreaded watch, and asked me where I was going to dine?
dickens|And why wonder at that?
austen|With amazement did she first understand that he believed any apology to be in his power; and steadfastly was she persuaded, that he could have no explanation to give, which a just sense of shame would not conceal.
austen|They had often attempted to do it before, but it was a subject on which Mrs Bennet was beyond the reach of reason, and she continued to rail bitterly against the cruelty of settling an estate away from a family of five daughters, in favour of a man whom nobody cared anything about.
dickens|The fire had not then burnt unusually low, nor was the snuff of the candle very long; the candle, however, had been blown out.
austen|Yes; but, when questioned by him, Denny denied knowing anything of their plans, and would not give his real opinion about it.
dickens|The imaginary student pursued by the misshapen creature he had impiously made, was not more wretched than I, pursued by the creature who had made me, and recoiling from him with a stronger repulsion, the more he admired me and the fonder he was of me.
dickens|said I.
dickens|I am far from being sure that I might not have astonished our small congregation by resorting to this extreme measure, but for its being Christmas Day and no Sunday.
dickens|Yielding to his own disturbance of mind, and to his young companions agitation, which became greater every instant, Mr Jarvis Lorry twice stopped to rest.
dickens|It is in vain I represent that I have acted for them, and not against, according to your commands.
dickens|A great event in my life, the turning point of my life, now opens on my view.
austen|Ours are all appletarts.
austen|Who was so useful to him, who so ready to write his letters, who so glad to assist him?
austen|I am sure, a month ago, I had no more idea myself!
dickens|The lady whom I had never seen before, lifted up her eyes and looked archly at me, and then I saw that the eyes were Estellas eyes.
dickens|Now, Mr Pip, you know, said Wemmick, you and I understand one another.
austen|Mrs Bennet could certainly spare you for another fortnight.
dickens|said that goodnatured emissary, after a full halfhour of bootless attempts to bring him round to the question.
dickens|Yes, Joe?
dickens|But dont you fret yourself on that score.
dickens|And couldnt Uncle Pumblechook, being always considerate and thoughtful for usthough you may not think it, Joseph, in a tone of the deepest reproach, as if he were the most callous of nephews, then mention this boy, standing Prancing herewhich I solemnly declare I was not doingthat I have for ever been a willing slave to?
austen|Her heart beat quick on hearing Harriets footstep and voice; so, she supposed, had poor Mrs Weston felt when she was approaching Randalls.
dickens|No, Joe.
dickens|Every farden.
austen|Before she had committed herself by any public profession of eternal friendship for Jane Fairfax, or done more towards a recantation of past prejudices and errors, than saying to Mr Knightley, She certainly is handsome; she is better than handsome!
dickens|He resented Mrs Crunchers saying grace with particular animosity.
dickens|Charles Darnay shook his head and doubtfully smiled, as the carriage rolled away.
austen|But while so many were devoting him to Emma, and Emma herself making him over to Harriet, Mr Knightley began to suspect him of some inclination to trifle with Jane Fairfax.
austen|And when Mrs Bates was saying something to Emma, whispered farther, We do not say a word of any assistance that Perry might have; not a word of a certain young physician from Windsor.
austen|I was tempted by his attentions, and allowed myself to appear pleased.
dickens|Nevertheless, not a moment was lost; not a moment!
dickens|Thatll do.
dickens|This is a terrible hardened one, they says to prison wisitors, picking out me.
dickens|Never mind what you read just now, sir; I dont ask you what you read just now.
dickens|So hard, so hard!
dickens|There is positively a mania among some of them for sending it to England.
dickens|Bankruptcy must inevitably have come of this young Pagan, in Lombardstreet, London, and also of a curtained alcove in the rear of the immortal boy, and also of a lookingglass let into the wall, and also of clerks not at all old, who danced in public on the slightest provocation.
austen|It was Garricks, you know.
dickens|said Mr Jaggers.
dickens|Mr Pip, you remember in old times a certain Christmas Day, when you were quite a child, and I dined at Gargerys, and some soldiers came to the door to get a pair of handcuffs mended?
austen|Undoubtedly, replied Darcy, to whom this remark was chiefly addressed, there is a meanness in all the arts which ladies sometimes condescend to employ for captivation.
dickens|When the village had taken its poor supper, it did not creep to bed, as it usually did, but came out of doors again, and remained there.
austen|He had misinterpreted the feelings which had kept her face averted, and her tongue motionless.
dickens|The house seems to have been violently entered when Joe Gargery was out.
austen|I dare say your apologies were accepted, sir.
austen|Emma wished she had been alone with Mrs Weston.
austen|At length however, the question was asked by her uncle; and she turned away with alarm, while Mrs Reynolds replied that he was, adding, But we expect him tomorrow, with a large party of friends.
austen|Lizzy, said he, I was going to look for you; come into my room.
austen|From the drawingroom they could distinguish nothing in the lane, and were indebted to Mr Collins for the knowledge of what carriages went along, and how often especially Miss de Bourgh drove by in her phaeton, which he never failed coming to inform them of, though it happened almost every day.
austen|My mother desires her very best compliments and regards, and a thousand thanks, and says you really quite oppress her.
dickens|Is it you, said Defarge, in a low voice, as they went down the guardhouse steps and turned into Paris, who married the daughter of Doctor Manette, once a prisoner in the Bastille that is no more?
austen|How unlucky that you should have a reasonable answer to give, and that I should be so reasonable as to admit it!
austen|She would not acknowledge that it was with any view of making a match for her, hereafter, with either of Isabellas sons; but she was convinced that a daughter would suit both father and mother best.
dickens|How can I say, when I never knew?
dickens|It was appointed that the book should shut with a spring, for ever and for ever, when I had read but a page.
austen|Every body invited, was certainly to come; Frank had already written to Enscombe to propose staying a few days beyond his fortnight, which could not possibly be refused.
austen|Lady Catherine, I have nothing further to say.
dickens|I think it necessary to turn the key.
dickens|Deeming that a serene and unconscious contemplation of him would best beseem me, and would be most likely to quell his evil mind, I advanced with that expression of countenance, and was rather congratulating myself on my success, when suddenly the knees of Trabbs boy smote together, his hair uprose, his cap fell off, he trembled violently in every limb, staggered out into the road, and crying to the populace, Hold me!
austen|What a horrible idea!
dickens|They were clean and new, and I spread them out and handed them over to him.
dickens|As he happened to go out now, and as Wemmick was brisk and talkative, I said to Wemmick that I hardly knew what to make of Mr Jaggerss manner.
dickens|Teatime, and Miss Pross making tea, with another fit of the jerks upon her, and yet no Hundreds of people.
austen|that, that is the worst of all.
dickens|He seemed to have more breathing business to do than another man, and to make more noise in doing it; and I was conscious of growing highshouldered on one side, in my shrinking endeavors to fend him off.
austen|you will never guess.
dickens|In effect, the sun was so low that it dipped at the moment.
dickens|Yes, my poor sister; to the last.
austen|Mr Bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on Mr Bingley.
austen|Elizabeth added privately, And how much I shall have to conceal!
austen|That I am sure you would.
dickens|The Doctor was in his best condition, and looked specially young.
austen|It was an unsuitable connexion, and did not produce much happiness.
austen|Mr and Mrs John Knightley were to come down in August, and she was invited to remain till they could bring her back.
austen|And who is there, whatever might be their former conduct, that she would think capable of such an attempt, till it were proved against them?
dickens|Because of Pips account of him, the said Matthew.
dickens|Taken out of harness one day at noon, to feedif he could find foodhe sobbed twelve times, once for every stroke of the bell, and died on her bosom.
dickens|Call Estella, she repeated, flashing a look at me.
austen|Nothing very bad.
dickens|I found Miss Sarah Pocket still on duty at the gate; I found Miss Havisham just as I had left her, and she spoke of Estella in the very same way, if not in the very same words.
austen|MY DEAR FRIEND,  If you are not so compassionate as to dine today with Louisa and me, we shall be in danger of hating each other for the rest of our lives, for a whole days teteatete between two women can never end without a quarrel.
dickens|It was not the faintness of physical weakness, though confinement and hard fare no doubt had their part in it.
austen|They have each their advantages, and I can be equally happy in either.
dickens|And then I told Joe that I felt very miserable, and that I hadnt been able to explain myself to Mrs Joe and Pumblechook, who were so rude to me, and that there had been a beautiful young lady at Miss Havishams who was dreadfully proud, and that she had said I was common, and that I knew I was common, and that I wished I was not common, and that the lies had come of it somehow, though I didnt know how.
dickens|Herbert and I said together, O, no doubt they would improve.
austen|My courage always rises at every attempt to intimidate me.
dickens|Tell the Wind and the Fire where to stop; not me!
austen|It is like a womans writing.
austen|Elizabeth could not but be pleased, could not but triumph.
austen|I fancy she was wanted about the mincepies.
austen|How could she deny that credit to his assertions in one instance, which she had been obliged to give in the other?
dickens|Get on with you!
austen|I know you will do him such ample justice, that I am growing every moment more unconcerned and indifferent.
dickens|His spirit inspired me with great respect.
dickens|The latter he was intimate with, and affectionately embraced.
dickens|The house was dark and shabby, and the greasy shoulders that had left their mark in Mr Jaggerss room seemed to have been shuffling up and down the staircase for years.
austen|A Mrs Elton would be an excuse for any change of intercourse; former intimacy might sink without remark.
austen|There was a seriousness in Harriets manner which prepared her, quite as much as her words, for something more than ordinary.
dickens|And now I began to wonder at myself for being in the coach, and to doubt whether I had sufficient reason for being there, and to consider whether I should get out presently and go back, and to argue against ever heeding an anonymous communication, and, in short, to pass through all those phases of contradiction and indecision to which I suppose very few hurried people are strangers.
austen|Ha!
austen|With a renewal of tenderness, however, they returned to her room on leaving the diningparlour, and sat with her till summoned to coffee.
dickens|Be careful to dewelop your talents, and never to say no more than you can help to nobody, and theres no telling at the present time what you may not come to be fit for.
austen|I think she must be here soon, said he.
dickens|Go and see him when he has a good batch.
dickens|Mr Wopsle answered, Those are not the exact words.
austen|She was humbled, she was grieved; she repented, though she hardly knew of what.
dickens|A plot in the prisons, of the foreigner against the Republic.
dickens|Now, dont echo, I retorted.
austen|Have you quite forgotten?
austen|Their journey was performed without much conversation, or any alarm; and within four hours of their leaving Hunsford they reached Mr Gardiners house, where they were to remain a few days.
austen|In not one of all my clever replies, my delicate negatives, is there any allusion to making a sacrifice.
austen|I would be understood to mean, that it can be only weak, irresolute characters, whose happiness must be always at the mercy of chance, who will suffer an unfortunate acquaintance to be an inconvenience, an oppression for ever.
dickens|As they are wanted for immediate service, will you throw your eye over them?
austen|Miss Taylor has been used to have two persons to please; she will now have but one.
austen|I am very, very sorry.
dickens|Yes, I know you, Citizen Doctor.
austen|Thank you, sir, thank you; I am going this moment myself; and I think the sooner you go the better.
dickens|she said, without being startled or surprised the days have worn away, have they?
austen|Yes; if you and Mr Woodhouse see no objection, and I trust you cannot, my father hopes his friends will be so kind as to visit him there.
austen|Unwilling as she was to admit an idea so destructive of Janes happiness, and so dishonorable to the stability of her lover, she could not prevent its frequently occurring.
austen|Indeed, Jane, you ought to believe me.
dickens|For he was furnished with that completeness that if the coachlamps had been blown and stormed out, which did occasionally happen, he had only to shut himself up inside, keep the flint and steel sparks well off the straw, and get a light with tolerable safety and ease if he were lucky in five minutes.
austen|People who have extensive grounds themselves are always pleased with any thing in the same style.
dickens|The house had always tolerated some person in that capacity, and time and tide had drifted this person to the post.
dickens|I saw Miss Havisham put her hand to her heart and hold it there, as she sat looking by turns at Estella and at me.
dickens|It led to my remarking, with more zeal than discretion, that it came with a bad grace from him, to whom Startop had lent money in my presence but a week or so before.
austen|I do not mean to set you against him, but indeed he is not quite the thing!
austen|Emma, I must tell you what you will not ask, though I may wish it unsaid the next moment.
dickens|If it should go ill with the prisoner, I have ensured access to him, once.
dickens|Dont you remember?
dickens|When he had got his shilling, and had in course of time completed the ascent to his box, and had got away which appeared to relieve his mind, I went into the front office with my little portmanteau in my hand and asked, Was Mr Jaggers at home?
austen|Very true.
dickens|I went all round it; round by the corner where Herbert and I had fought our battle; round by the paths where Estella and I had walked.
austen|Mr Elton going to be married!
dickens|Tst!
austen|His pride never deserts him; but with the rich he is liberalminded, just, sincere, rational, honourable, and perhaps agreeableallowing something for fortune and figure.
dickens|They are in danger of denunciation by Madame Defarge.
dickens|The officer looked up from his slip of paper for a moment.
austen|I could very ill be sparedbut such a point had been made of my coming!
dickens|Mr Crunchers apartments were not in a savoury neighbourhood, and were but two in number, even if a closet with a single pane of glass in it might be counted as one.
austen|The favour of your company has been much felt, I assure you.
austen|I wonder how the young man could have the assurance to ask it.
dickens|Why, see what a letter you wrote last night!
dickens|I salute you, citizens.
austen|This moment, if you please.
austen|They might be more safely held up as a pattern.
dickens|Tut, tut!
austen|And a special licence.
dickens|Indeed, it is this doubt and the uneasiness it sometimes causes me that has led me to our present confidence.
austen|If I had known as much this morning I certainly would not have called on him.
austen|This to me!
austen|It is a very simple story.
austen|But just got acquainted with Mrs Weston, and others!
austen|There is always a look of consciousness or bustle when people come in a way which they know to be beneath them.
austen|the blessing of a female correspondent, when one is really interested in the absent!
austen|Sir William and Lady Lucas were speedily applied to for their consent; and it was bestowed with a most joyful alacrity.
dickens|It was evening when I arrived, much fatigued by the journey I had so often made so easily.
dickens|What has been my history, that I should be at the pains of entreating either them or you not to have it so!
austen|You are not serious?
austen|She feared it was what every body else must think of and predict.
austen|that you have never thought seriously of her?
dickens|Why I didnt look for you these two months; how do you find yourself?
dickens|I entreated her to rise, and got my arms about her to help her up; but she only pressed that hand of mine which was nearest to her grasp, and hung her head over it and wept.
dickens|I modestly assented, and we all fell through a little dirty swing door, into a sort of hot packingcase immediately behind it.
austen|Oh!
austen|He had been some days in town, before he was able to discover them; but he had something to direct his search, which was more than we had; and the consciousness of this was another reason for his resolving to follow us.
dickens|I suppose sense in certain quarters; you suppose mincing breadandbutter nonsense.
dickens|I was wondering who it was, who kept the fire off.
austen|You will get nothing to the purpose from Miss Bates, said Emma.
austen|Yes; all the advantages of sitting still when he ought to move, and of leading a life of mere idle pleasure, and fancying himself extremely expert in finding excuses for it.
dickens|So now, as an infallible way of making little ease great ease, I began to contract a quantity of debt.
dickens|Let me follow in her steps.
dickens|The position appeared by no means to please him, however, with an increasing rabble surrounding the coach, deriding him, making grimaces at him, and incessantly groaning and calling out Yah!
dickens|Day by day as his hopes grew stronger and his face brighter, he must have thought me a more and more affectionate friend, for I had the greatest difficulty in restraining my tears of triumph when I saw him so happy.
dickens|Tell me.
dickens|said Wemmick, touching me on the breast with his forefinger; youre a deep one, Mr Pip!
dickens|But for you, dear stranger, I should not be so composed, for I am naturally a poor little thing, faint of heart; nor should I have been able to raise my thoughts to Him who was put to death, that we might have hope and comfort here today.
austen|She had never rejoiced at the sound before, nor ever before entered the passage, nor walked up the stairs, with any wish of giving pleasure, but in conferring obligation, or of deriving it, except in subsequent ridicule.
austen|What do you think of him?
dickens|We dived into the City, and came up in a crowded policecourt, where a bloodrelation in the murderous sense of the deceased, with the fanciful taste in brooches, was standing at the bar, uncomfortably chewing something; while my guardian had a woman under examination or crossexamination,I dont know which,and was striking her, and the bench, and everybody present, with awe.
austen|Ah!
dickens|To think of your poor sister and her Rampages!
austen|We must begin; we must go and pay wedding visit very soon.
dickens|There ought to have been a tranquil bark in such an anchorage, and there was.
austen|but one never does form a just idea of any body beforehand.
dickens|Mr Carton, the Spy answered, with a timid snap of his fingers, my hazard is not that, in the thick of business here, if you are true to the whole of your bargain.
dickens|To the first, then.
dickens|So, the Spider, doggedly watching Estella, outwatched many brighter insects, and would often uncoil himself and drop at the right nick of time.
dickens|Banker.
austen|But it was not to be.
dickens|As if he were absolutely out of his mind with the wonder awakened in him by her strange figure and the strange room, Joe, even at this pass, persisted in addressing me.
dickens|Heres a church!
dickens|Well?
austen|She wrote again when the visit was paid, and she had seen Miss Bingley.
austen|Mrs Weston was looking so ill, and had an air of so much perturbation, that Emmas uneasiness increased; and the moment they were alone, she eagerly said,  What is it my dear friend?
austen|She heard of her walking with the Eltons, sitting with the Eltons, spending a day with the Eltons!
austen|A few words which dropped from him yesterday spoke his opinion, and some censure I acknowledge myself liable to.
dickens|As I never assisted at any other representation of George Barnwell, I dont know how long it may usually take; but I know very well that it took until halfpast nine o clock that night, and that when Mr Wopsle got into Newgate, I thought he never would go to the scaffold, he became so much slower than at any former period of his disgraceful career.
dickens|Going?
dickens|Sometimes, What was that ripple?
dickens|This, with an angry explanatory wave of her right arm.
dickens|At last we went back into the house, and there I heard, with surprise, that my guardian had come down to see Miss Havisham on business, and would come back to dinner.
dickens|Ever the best of friends.
dickens|There was a change in the appearance of Saint Antoine; the image had been hammering into this for hundreds of years, and the last finishing blows had told mightily on the expression.
dickens|However, her temper was greatly improved, and she was patient.
dickens|No need to take a file from his pocket and show it to me; no need to take the handkerchief from his neck and twist it round his head; no need to hug himself with both his arms, and take a shivering turn across the room, looking back at me for recognition.
dickens|She was not unfrequently the victim of this disorder, and she called it, in familiar conversation, a fit of the jerks.
austen|But it was so, I suppose.
dickens|Thats why.
dickens|These are not the hands she knew, this is not the face she knew, this is not a voice she ever heard.
dickens|Her father had gone on before, to prepare her, and when her husband stood upon his feet, she dropped insensible in his arms.
austen|Yes.
dickens|When you came in at the gate and asked the watchman the way here, had you any one with you?
austen|She wished to discredit it entirely, repeatedly exclaiming, This must be false!
dickens|They had not traversed many steps of the long main staircase when he stopped, and stared at the roof and round at the walls.
dickens|I had previously sought in my pockets for the letter, that I might refer to it again; but I could not find it, and was uneasy to think that it must have been dropped in the straw of the coach.
dickens|I cannot find it, said he, and I must have it.
austen|She was ready to tell every thing in her power, but on this subject questions were vain.
dickens|I asked for cooling drink, and the dear hand that gave it me was Joes.
austen|Mr Collins was gratified, and with a more smiling solemnity replied  It gives me great pleasure to hear that you have passed your time not disagreeably.
austen|Yes, I see what she means, turning to Mr Knightley, and I will try to hold my tongue.
austen|Maple Grove will probably be my model more than it ought to befor we do not at all affect to equal my brother, Mr Suckling, in income.
dickens|Ay, ay, why not!
dickens|Your servant, Sir, said Joe, which I hope as you and Piphere his eye fell on the Avenger, who was putting some toast on table, and so plainly denoted an intention to make that young gentleman one of the family, that I frowned it down and confused him moreI meantersay, you two gentlemen,which I hope as you get your elths in this close spot?
dickens|Hunger was pushed out of the tall houses, in the wretched clothing that hung upon poles and lines; Hunger was patched into them with straw and rag and wood and paper; Hunger was repeated in every fragment of the small modicum of firewood that the man sawed off; Hunger stared down from the smokeless chimneys, and started up from the filthy street that had no offal, among its refuse, of anything to eat.
austen|But why Mr Darcy came so often to the Parsonage, it was more difficult to understand.
dickens|Death is Natures remedy for all things, and why not Legislations?
dickens|I was clearly on my way there.
austen|But these, I suppose, are precisely what you are without.
austen|Yes, she called yesterday with her father.
austen|She was his own Emma, by hand and word, when they returned into the house; and if he could have thought of Frank Churchill then, he might have deemed him a very good sort of fellow.
dickens|You must accept all consequences of that hypothesis.
dickens|A little later on in the dinner, Mr Wopsle reviewed the sermon with some severity, and intimatedin the usual hypothetical case of the Church being thrown openwhat kind of sermon he would have given them.
austen|Indeed!
austen|In this age of literature, such collections on a very grand scale are not uncommon.
austen|And her salary!
dickens|he cried, laughing, after doing it again, the burnt child dreads the fire!
austen|You are right, Mrs Weston, said Mr Knightley warmly, Miss Fairfax is as capable as any of us of forming a just opinion of Mrs Elton.
austen|What can he mean by being so tiresome as to be always coming here?
dickens|When should I awaken the heart within her that was mute and sleeping now?
austen|As I am happily quite an altered creature in one respect, it is very fit that you should have the satisfaction of knowing it.
dickens|Did you send that note of Miss Havishams to Mr Pip, Wemmick?
austen|leave all that to me.
austen|Mrs Goddard, what say you to half a glass of wine?
austen|The evening of this day was very long, and melancholy, at Hartfield.
dickens|The Aged was likewise occupied in preparing a similar sacrifice for the altar of Hymen.
austen|I have by no means done.
austen|Oh no!
austen|Kitty and Lydia take his defection much more to heart than I do.
dickens|His condition was that of a young gentleman.
dickens|I see him, foremost of just judges and honoured men, bringing a boy of my name, with a forehead that I know and golden hair, to this placethen fair to look upon, with not a trace of this days disfigurementand I hear him tell the child my story, with a tender and a faltering voice.
dickens|Camilla presently went on I knew they had all been looking at me in the mean time, he is so very strange!
austen|True.
austen|Mrs Weston looked surprized, and said, I did not know that he ever had any such plan.
dickens|As if a train of powder laid from the outermost bound of Saint Antoine Quarter to the wineshop door, had been suddenly fired, a fastspreading murmur came rushing along.
austen|Neither Jane nor Elizabeth were comfortable on this subject.
dickens|Thats true, Mum, said Mr Pumblechook, with a grave nod.
austen|Mr Darcy had been at her sisters wedding.
dickens|She laid down her knitting, and began to pin her rose in her headdress, before she looked at the figure.
dickens|You are expected on board, said the sergeant to my convict; they know you are coming.
dickens|Still you see, as far as it goes, a pair of pigeons are portable property all the same.
dickens|May you live a thousand years, and never be a worse judge of the right sort than you are at the present moment of your life!
dickens|and confound you for two wild beasts!
austen|In short, I have made a match between Mr Knightley and Jane Fairfax.
dickens|French.
austen|The present crisis, indeed, seemed to be brought on by them; and those misunderstandings might very possibly arise from the impropriety of his conduct.
austen|But I never allow myself to speak ill of her, on Franks account; for I do believe her to be very fond of him.
dickens|Goodbye, Handel!
dickens|repeated Estella.
dickens|No indeed, Miss Havisham.
austen|But, though this might be imaginary, she could not be deceived as to his behaviour to Miss Darcy, who had been set up as a rival to Jane.
dickens|In the beginning of the great days, when the Bastille falls, he finds this paper of today, and he brings it home, and in the middle of the night when this place is clear and shut, we read it, here on this spot, by the light of this lamp.
austen|Upon my word, Jane on one arm, and me on the other!
austen|That he was not a goodtempered man had been her firmest opinion.
dickens|Yes, dearest.
dickens|Dull?
dickens|Yes, I answered.
dickens|Tother ones was one syllable.
dickens|She asked me and Joe whether we supposed she was doormats under our feet, and how we dared to use her so, and what company we graciously thought she was fit for?
austen|I had not an idea of it.
austen|cried Elizabeth, brightening up for a moment.
austen|Oh!
dickens|said Mr Cruncher, looking out of bed for a boot.
austen|I am quite sure, he replied, speaking very distinctly, that he told me she had accepted him; and that there was no obscurity, nothing doubtful, in the words he used; and I think I can give you a proof that it must be so.
dickens|Yes, yes, all right.
austen|Lydias intention of walking to Meryton was not forgotten; every sister except Mary agreed to go with her; and Mr Collins was to attend them, at the request of Mr Bennet, who was most anxious to get rid of him, and have his library to himself; for thither Mr Collins had followed him after breakfast; and there he would continue, nominally engaged with one of the largest folios in the collection, but really talking to Mr Bennet, with little cessation, of his house and garden at Hunsford.
dickens|Here is the letter.
austen|On this point we have been wretched.
austen|Some change of countenance was necessary for each gentleman as they walked into Mrs Westons drawingroom;Mr Elton must compose his joyous looks, and Mr John Knightley disperse his illhumour.
austen|It was true that her friend was going only half a mile from them; but Emma was aware that great must be the difference between a Mrs Weston, only half a mile from them, and a Miss Taylor in the house; and with all her advantages, natural and domestic, she was now in great danger of suffering from intellectual solitude.
austen|Me!
austen|YesI imaginedthat isI did not  He has been used to her in these complaints, and I hope tomorrow morning will bring us both a more comfortable report.
dickens|Thatll do, Molly, said Mr Jaggers, giving her a slight nod; you have been admired, and can go.
austen|And who do you think came in while we were there?
dickens|They kept him out in the unwholesome mists at night, and ordered him back into his harness in the day.
austen|And did Colonel Forster appear to think well of Wickham himself?
austen|I assure you I have no doubt of its doing Mr Woodhouse good.
austen|Yes, do.
dickens|For such variety of reasons, Tellsons was at that time, as to French intelligence, a kind of High Exchange; and this was so well known to the public, and the inquiries made there were in consequence so numerous, that Tellsons sometimes wrote the latest news out in a line or so and posted it in the Bank windows, for all who ran through Temple Bar to read.
dickens|They shall come and look at me here.
dickens|Dread him, said Wemmick.
dickens|And as the frantic wielders of these weapons snatched them from the stream of sparks and tore away into the streets, the same red hue was red in their frenzied eyes;eyes which any unbrutalised beholder would have given twenty years of life, to petrify with a welldirected gun.
dickens|So new to him, she muttered, so old to me; so strange to him, so familiar to me; so melancholy to both of us!
austen|Mr Knightley was fortunate in every bodys most ready concurrence.
dickens|Do you know him?
austen|It was felt as such things must be felt.
austen|Every distinguishing attention that could be paid, was paid to her.
austen|If you, my dear father, will not take the trouble of checking her exuberant spirits, and of teaching her that her present pursuits are not to be the business of her life, she will soon be beyond the reach of amendment.
austen|It seemed as if her eyes were suddenly opened, and she were enabled to see that Mr Elton was not the superior creature she had believed him.
austen|Very much to the honour of both, was the handsome reply.
austen|But I shall not scruple to assert, that the serenity of your sisters countenance and air was such as might have given the most acute observer a conviction that, however amiable her temper, her heart was not likely to be easily touched.
dickens|You do remember them, I know.
austen|I shall always have a great regard for the Miss Martins, especially Elizabeth, and should be very sorry to give them up, for they are quite as well educated as me.
dickens|How Wemmick received the announcement I am unable to say; for I was afraid to look at him just then, lest Mr Jaggerss sharpness should detect that there had been some communication unknown to him between us.
dickens|No thanks to you in brown, if she does.
dickens|Besides, said Mr Pumblechook, turning sharp on me, think what youve got to be grateful for.
austen|Observe the turn of her throat.
dickens|A Doctor?
dickens|Never did the sun go down with a brighter glory on the quiet corner in Soho, than one memorable evening when the Doctor and his daughter sat under the planetree together.
austen|Dinner was on table.
dickens|Well, Pip, said Joe, be it so or be it sont, you must be a common scholar afore you can be a oncommon one, I should hope!
dickens|He worked it himself at the policeoffice, day after day for many days, contending against even a committal; and at the trial where he couldnt work it himself, sat under counsel, andevery one knewput in all the salt and pepper.
dickens|Now that we were out upon the dismal wilderness where they little thought I had been within eight or nine hours and had seen both men hiding, I considered for the first time, with great dread, if we should come upon them, would my particular convict suppose that it was I who had brought the soldiers there?
dickens|As you say, Pip, returned Mr Jaggers, turning his eyes upon me coolly, and taking a bite at his forefinger, I am not at all responsible for that.
dickens|I cordially assented.
dickens|Therefore, I was not only oddboy about the forge, but if any neighbor happened to want an extra boy to frighten birds, or pick up stones, or do any such job, I was favored with the employment.
dickens|said I, shaking hands with him as we turned down the street together.
austen|What an air of probability sometimes runs through a dream!
austen|He was seriously concerned that a cause of so little advantage to anyone should be forwarded at the sole expense of his brotherinlaw, and he was determined, if possible, to find out the extent of his assistance, and to discharge the obligation as soon as he could.
dickens|It is a pity you have not, sir.
dickens|He had been drinking, and his eyes were red and bloodshot.
dickens|What have you got to do with it, then, if a person may inquire?
austen|He walked off to find his father, but was quickly back again with both Mr and Mrs Weston.
dickens|I verily believe that her not remembering and not minding in the least, made me cry again, inwardly,and that is the sharpest crying of all.
austen|Mr Bingley intended it likewise, and sometimes made choice of his county; but as he was now provided with a good house and the liberty of a manor, it was doubtful to many of those who best knew the easiness of his temper, whether he might not spend the remainder of his days at Netherfield, and leave the next generation to purchase.
austen|I have been seeing their intimacy with the greatest pleasure.
austen|I remain, dear sir, with respectful compliments to your lady and daughters, your wellwisher and friend,  WILLIAM COLLINS  At four oclock, therefore, we may expect this peacemaking gentleman,  said Mr Bennet, as he folded up the letter.
austen|When Mr Collins could be forgotten, there was really an air of great comfort throughout, and by Charlottes evident enjoyment of it, Elizabeth supposed he must be often forgotten.
dickens|Then I did the same for Herbert who modestly said he had not my administrative genius, and felt that I had brought his affairs into a focus for him.
austen|Emma denied none of it aloud, and agreed to none of it in private.
dickens|You mustnt give me credit for the tablecloth and spoons and castors, because they come for you from the coffeehouse.
dickens|The forge was shut up for the day, and Joe inscribed in chalk upon the door as it was his custom to do on the very rare occasions when he was not at work the monosyllable HOUT, accompanied by a sketch of an arrow supposed to be flying in the direction he had taken.
austen|I wish I could recollect more of it.
austen|Harriet was standing at one of the windows.
austen|In short, said he, perhaps, Miss WoodhouseI think you can hardly be quite without suspicion  He looked at her, as if wanting to read her thoughts.
dickens|That he would be leniently treated, I could not hope.
dickens|Again, well?
dickens|When this little interruption was over, Joe resumed  Well, you see, Pip, and here we are!
austen|Can you deny that you have done it?
dickens|He bent over the child, and laid her blooming cheek against his face.
austen|She ought to goand she was longing to see her; the resemblance of their present situations increasing every other motive of goodwill.
austen|Nothing at all.
austen|She felt that Janes feelings, though fervent, were little displayed, and that there was a constant complacency in her air and manner not often united with great sensibility.
dickens|I had no difficulty in deducing from your unreserved conversation, and the rumour openly going about among your admirers, the nature of your calling.
austen|The rector of a parish has much to do.
austen|He could sing a little himself.
austen|There was no denying that those brothers had penetration.
dickens|Defarge and the three glanced darkly at one another.
austen|I shall never forget her appearance this morning.
dickens|In Heavens name, dont harp upon it!
dickens|Monsieur Defarge alighted; knowing one or two of the soldiery there, and one of the police.
austen|It is a certainty.
austen|You may have done wrong with regard to Mr Dixon, but this is a punishment beyond what you can have merited!
dickens|The air felt cold upon the river, but it was a bright day, and the sunshine was very cheering.
dickens|This terrible threat caused the two women to fall off immediately.
austen|There can be no doubt of your being a gentlemans daughter, and you must support your claim to that station by every thing within your own power, or there will be plenty of people who would take pleasure in degrading you.
austen|An unpretending, singleminded, artless girlinfinitely to be preferred by any man of sense and taste to such a woman as Mrs Elton.
austen|How eager he had been about the picture!
austen|Her mind was quite sick of Mr Elton and the Martins.
dickens|I was in the provinces mostly.
dickens|The frenzy was so violent, that I had not unfastened the bandages restraining the arms; but, I had looked to them, to see that they were not painful.
dickens|You?
dickens|And you a Frenchman born?
dickens|Mr Lorry was already out when he got back, and it was easy to surmise where the good old man was gone.
dickens|Poor, poor old place!
austen|I hope we shall have her here next week.
dickens|Lets see; theres London, one; Southwark, two; Blackfriars, three; Waterloo, four; Westminster, five; Vauxhall, six.
dickens|Beneath that arch of unmoved and eternal lights; some, so remote from this little earth that the learned tell us it is doubtful whether their rays have even yet discovered it, as a point in space where anything is suffered or done the shadows of the night were broad and black.
austen|Emma must submit to stand second to Mrs Elton, though she had always considered the ball as peculiarly for her.
austen|there is no end of the sad consequences of your going to South End.
dickens|He resorted to his pint of wine for consolation, drank it all in a few minutes, and fell asleep on his arms, with his hair straggling over the table, and a long windingsheet in the candle dripping down upon him.
austen|I am far from attributing any part of Mr Bingleys conduct to design,  said Elizabeth; but without scheming to do wrong, or to make others unhappy, there may be error, and there may be misery.
austen|Liable as you have been to severe colds, indeed you ought to be particularly careful, especially at this time of year.
austen|It is impossible for me to be impartial.
dickens|As it was almost noon, Joe and I held straight on to Miss Havishams house.
austen|Yes, almost every day.
austen|Nonsense!
dickens|You know the name?
dickens|You will not be late?
dickens|Mind!
austen|This part of his intelligence, though unheard by Lydia, was caught by Elizabeth, and, as it assured her that Darcy was not less answerable for Wickhams absence than if her first surmise had been just, every feeling of displeasure against the former was so sharpened by immediate disappointment, that she could hardly reply with tolerable civility to the polite inquiries which he directly afterwards approached to make.
dickens|Theres a young man hid with me, in comparison with which young man I am a Angel.
austen|He could not see her in a situation of such danger, without trying to preserve her.
dickens|Why, said Joe, yes, there certainly were a peck of orangepeel.
austen|He confessed himself obliged to leave the regiment, on account of some debts of honour, which were very pressing; and scrupled not to lay all the illconsequences of Lydias flight on her own folly alone.
dickens|Mr Jerry Crunchers name, therefore, duly embellished the doorpost down below; and, as the afternoon shadows deepened, the owner of that name himself appeared, from overlooking a painter whom Doctor Manette had employed to add to the list the name of Charles Evremonde, called Darnay.
dickens|Meant to be so, said Wemmick.
austen|On Tuesday there was a large party assembled at Longbourn; and the two who were most anxiously expected, to the credit of their punctuality as sportsmen, were in very good time.
austen|The preparatory interest of this dinner, however, was not yet over.
austen|Our plain manner of living, our small rooms and few domestics, and the little we see of the world, must make Hunsford extremely dull to a young lady like yourself; but I hope you will believe us grateful for the condescension, and that we have done everything in our power to prevent your spending your time unpleasantly.
dickens|When I left, Estella was yet standing by the great chimneypiece, just as she had stood throughout.
austen|Oh!
austen|Indeed, the truth was, that poor dear Jane could not bear to see any bodyany body at allMrs Elton, indeed, could not be deniedand Mrs Cole had made such a pointand Mrs Perry had said so muchbut, except them, Jane would really see nobody.
austen|and my memory is very bad.
dickens|O no!
dickens|No, said I.
austen|But now I seem to feel that I may deserve him; and that if he does chuse me, it will not be any thing so very wonderful.
dickens|I hardly seem yet, returned Charles Darnay, to belong to this world again.
dickens|They all had a listless and dreary air of waiting somebodys pleasure, and the most talkative of the ladies had to speak quite rigidly to repress a yawn.
austen|This Mrs Younge was, he knew, intimately acquainted with Wickham; and he went to her for intelligence of him as soon as he got to town.
austen|Common sense would have directed her to tell Harriet, that she must not allow herself to think of him, and that there were five hundred chances to one against his ever caring for her.
dickens|said Joe.
austen|I want to talk very seriously.
dickens|This must be a strange night to you, standing alone here with your counterpart on these street stones?
dickens|When I had rung at the bell with an unsteady hand, I turned my back upon the gate, while I tried to get my breath and keep the beating of my heart moderately quiet.
dickens|I considered, and said, Never.
austen|said I, I shall not forestall Jane; I left her dancing with Mr George Otway; she will love to tell you all about it herself tomorrow her first partner was Mr Elton, I do not know who will ask her next, perhaps Mr William Cox.
austen|He had said that Jane Fairfax received attentions from Mrs Elton which nobody else paid her.
austen|The Eltons were still talking of a visit from the Sucklings, and of the use to be made of their barouchelandau; and Jane Fairfax was still at her grandmothers; and as the return of the Campbells from Ireland was again delayed, and August, instead of Midsummer, fixed for it, she was likely to remain there full two months longer, provided at least she were able to defeat Mrs Eltons activity in her service, and save herself from being hurried into a delightful situation against her will.
austen|No, Lizzy, that is what I do not choose.
dickens|I do so, father, and I send him my Soul with it!
austen|The morrow produced no abatement of Mrs Bennets illhumour or ill health.
austen|Is Miss Woodhouse sure that she would like to hear what we are all thinking of?
austen|I know, indeed, that he is so, and, as such, wish him well.
dickens|I had grand ideas of the wealth and importance of Insurers of Ships in the City, and I began to think with awe of having laid a young Insurer on his back, blackened his enterprising eye, and cut his responsible head open.
dickens|The young man.
austen|Emma laughed, and replied,  My being charming, Harriet, is not quite enough to induce me to marry; I must find other people charmingone other person at least.
dickens|Not, I grant you, but what his manners is given to blusterous, said Joe, apologetically; still, a Englishmans ouse is his Castle, and castles must not be busted cept when done in war time.
dickens|Doctor Manette, I knew she was from home.
austen|It had come with a fare from London; and as he thought that the circumstance of a gentleman and ladys removing from one carriage into another might be remarked he meant to make inquiries at Clapham.
dickens|If I had never seen Charles, my father, I should have been quite happy with you.
dickens|Halloa!
dickens|What I have left to call my ownit is little beyond the worth of a few jewelsI will make it the first charge of his life to bestow, with the compassion and lamenting of his dead mother, on this injured family, if the sister can be discovered.
dickens|I could not help thinking that it might be harder if the butchers time and attention were diverted from dear Mrs Pocket; but I said nothing, and indeed had enough to do in keeping a bashful watch upon my company manners.
austen|I was quite a proverb for it at Maple Grove.
dickens|But I was no sooner in the passage than I extinguished my candle; for I saw Miss Havisham going along it in a ghostly manner, making a low cry.
austen|Of course I have not transcribed beyond the first eight lines.
dickens|Hundreds, said Miss Pross.
dickens|He then conducted the young lady straightway to her chair again, and, holding the chairback with his left hand, and using his right by turns to rub his chin, pull his wig at the ears, or point what he said, stood looking down into her face while she sat looking up into his.
austen|Then, who taught you?
dickens|Now, Ill tell you what I have got for supper, Mr Pip.
austen|Oh!
dickens|A broad ray of light fell into the garret, and showed the workman with an unfinished shoe upon his lap, pausing in his labour.
dickens|Burn this as soon as read.
dickens|I am told its very like your Shropshire.
austen|After a few whispers, indeed, which placed it beyond a guess, Mrs Elton, speaking louder, said,  Yes, here I am, my good friend; and here I have been so long, that anywhere else I should think it necessary to apologise; but, the truth is, that I am waiting for my lord and master.
dickens|Wemmicks house was a little wooden cottage in the midst of plots of garden, and the top of it was cut out and painted like a battery mounted with guns.
austen|I do pity you.
austen|I hoped to find you reasonable; but, depend upon it, I will carry my point.
dickens|And speaking of Gaspard ah, poor Gaspard!
austen|Yes, oh!
dickens|Then, I got up and partly dressed, and sat at the window to take a last look out, and in taking it fell asleep.
austen|Jane actually on the point of going as governess!
austen|If a separation of two months should not have cooled him, there were dangers and evils before hercaution for him and for herself would be necessary.
dickens|Ill say no more.
dickens|Occasionally, he shot himself out of his equipage headforemost over the apron; and I saw him on one occasion deliver himself at the door of the Grove in this unintentional waylike coals.
austen|I was sometimes quite provoked, but then I recollected my dear Elizabeth and Jane, and for their sakes had patience with her.
austen|Did you, on reading it, give any credit to its contents?
austen|While waiting for the carriage, she found Mr Knightley by her side.
dickens|But it warnt Old Orlick as did it; it was you.
austen|It is, in short, impossible for us to conjecture the causes or circumstances which may have alienated them, without actual blame on either side.
dickens|Peasant women kept the unfashionable babies close, and brought them up, and charming grandmammas of sixty dressed and supped as at twenty.
dickens|Dont be absurd.
dickens|Dear boy, he returned, theres disguising wigs can be bought for money, and theres hair powder, and spectacles, and black clothes,shorts and what not.
austen|Mr Darcy was punctual in his return, and as Lydia informed you, attended the wedding.
dickens|Now Joseph, you know the case.
dickens|We have had a time together, Joe, that I can never forget.
dickens|Mr Jarvis Lorry and Miss Manette, emerging from the wineshop thus, joined Monsieur Defarge in the doorway to which he had directed his own company just before.
dickens|Of course I knew better than to offer to see Miss Skiffins home, and under the circumstances I thought I had best go first; which I did, taking a cordial leave of the Aged, and having passed a pleasant evening.
austen|When he was gone, they were certain at least of receiving constant information of what was going on, and their uncle promised, at parting, to prevail on Mr Bennet to return to Longbourn, as soon as he could, to the great consolation of his sister, who considered it as the only security for her husbands not being killed in a duel.
austen|She must be collected and calm.
austen|I leave it to yourself to determine, said Mr Bennet.
dickens|You cant think how it pleases him.
dickens|The more I looked into the glowing coals, the more incapable I became of looking at Joe; the longer the silence lasted, the more unable I felt to speak.
austen|Proud that in a cause of compassion and honour, he had been able to get the better of himself.
dickens|I saw Mr Pumblechook balance his knife.
dickens|And whose fault was that?
austen|But she was always right.
dickens|This was very singular to me, and I looked at her in considerable perplexity.
dickens|Then, she withdrew her hand, and kissed his lips once more, and went away.
austen|He was on the move immediately; but coming back, said,  I am forgetting that I am not acquainted with her.
austen|We are each of an unsocial, taciturn disposition, unwilling to speak, unless we expect to say something that will amaze the whole room, and be handed down to posterity with all the eclat of a proverb.
dickens|I found him in his dressingroom surrounded by his stock of boots, already hard at it, washing his hands of us.
dickens|What is it that I manage?
austen|I am most happy to hear itbut only Jane Fairfax one knows to be so very accomplished and superior!
dickens|Singlehanded I got clear of the prisonship; I made a dash and I done it.
austen|I merely called, because I would not pass the door without inquiring after Mrs Bates; but I have been so pleasantly detained!
austen|The pain of his continued residence in Highbury, however, must certainly be lessened by his marriage.
austen|True, sir; and Emma, because she had Miss Fairfax.
dickens|Nice toasts these Redheads will be drinking, wherever we buy it.
dickens|At all events, youll be nearer getting it, for it must come at last.
dickens|How Joe got out of the room, I have never been able to determine; but I know that when he did get out he was steadily proceeding upstairs instead of coming down, and was deaf to all remonstrances until I went after him and laid hold of him.
dickens|Whats that?
dickens|Lookee here!
austen|Mr Knightley could not be there too often; he should be glad to see him every day;but they did see him every day as it was.
austen|The one missent must first be attended to; it had been written five days ago.
austen|Elizabeth blushed and blushed again with shame and vexation.
austen|Mr Eltons absence just at this time was the very thing to be desired.
dickens|At the best of times, so much of this elixir was administered to me as a choice restorative, that I was conscious of going about, smelling like a new fence.
austen|When this was done she had a less active part to play.
dickens|Very few men have the power of wrist that this woman has.
dickens|I see her, an old woman, weeping for me on the anniversary of this day.
austen|She was a little shocked at the want of two drawing rooms, at the poor attempt at routcakes, and there being no ice in the Highbury cardparties.
austen|Now, upon his fathers marriage, it was very generally proposed, as a most proper attention, that the visit should take place.
dickens|Because I dont want to.
austen|Let her be called down.
austen|There was no time for farther remark or explanation.
dickens|Miss Havisham, I answered, as delicately as I could, I believe I may say that I do know your story, and have known it ever since I first left this neighborhood.
dickens|and then counted up to twelve, and said, Hush!
austen|Emma could not think it too soon; for with all his good and agreeable qualities, there was a sort of parade in his speeches which was very apt to incline her to laugh.
austen|It was quite a chance, he said, that he had not gone round by Randalls.
dickens|Think of her bringingup, and think of Miss Havisham.
austen|When all of the house that was open to general inspection had been seen, they returned downstairs, and, taking leave of the housekeeper, were consigned over to the gardener, who met them at the halldoor.
austen|He was quite young, wonderfully handsome, extremely agreeable, and, to crown the whole, he meant to be at the next assembly with a large party.
austen|She had no scruple with regard to him.
dickens|I execute my instructions, and I am paid for doing so.
dickens|Us two being now alone, resumed Joe, and me having the intentions and abilities to stay not many minutes more, I will now concludeleastways beginto mention what have led to my having had the present honor.
austen|The Eltons walked together; Mr Knightley took charge of Miss Bates and Jane; and Emma and Harriet belonged to Frank Churchill.
austen|Very like Maple Grove indeed!
dickens|Do you mean that you wont say, sir?
dickens|Dont commit yourself, said Mr Jaggers, and dont commit any one.
dickens|And how should I be able to answer, dodged in that way, in a strange place, on an empty stomach!
austen|At first, she thought it was a good deal; and afterwards, but little.
austen|I am very sensible of the honour of your proposals, but it is impossible for me to do otherwise than to decline them.
dickens|Theres subjects enough as betwixt two sech, without onnecessary ones.
dickens|How do I know what injury you have done my horses.
dickens|Expected home.
dickens|Her life was active, cheerful, useful; but my poor history pervaded it all.
dickens|The exquisite gentlemen of the finest breeding wore little pendent trinkets that chinked as they languidly moved; these golden fetters rang like precious little bells; and what with that ringing, and with the rustle of silk and brocade and fine linen, there was a flutter in the air that fanned Saint Antoine and his devouring hunger far away.
dickens|You are not afraid?
austen|But if otherwiseif regard springing from such sources is unreasonable or unnatural, in comparison of what is so often described as arising on a first interview with its object, and even before two words have been exchanged, nothing can be said in her defence, except that she had given somewhat of a trial to the latter method in her partiality for Wickham, and that its ill success might, perhaps, authorise her to seek the other less interesting mode of attachment.
austen|No; he was talking to Mrs Colehe was looking on unconcerned; Jane was asked by somebody else, and he was still talking to Mrs Cole.
dickens|Then I took up my little portmanteau and walked out.
austen|His air was grave and stately, and his manners were very formal.
dickens|Yes.
dickens|He gave Joe goodnight, and he gave Mr Wopsle goodnight who went out with us, and he gave me only a look with his aiming eye,no, not a look, for he shut it up, but wonders may be done with an eye by hiding it.
austen|To Jane, he could be only a man whose proposals she had refused, and whose merit she had undervalued; but to her own more extensive information, he was the person to whom the whole family were indebted for the first of benefits, and whom she regarded herself with an interest, if not quite so tender, at least as reasonable and just as what Jane felt for Bingley.
austen|Her aunt asked her, smilingly, how she liked it.
dickens|Ill run them over.
dickens|You gave it to yourself; you gained it for yourself.
austen|He would have judged better, she thought, if he had not stopped.
austen|He is a person I never think of from one months end to another, said Mr Knightley, with a degree of vexation, which made Emma immediately talk of something else, though she could not comprehend why he should be angry.
austen|She was teased by Mr Collins, who continued most perseveringly by her side, and though he could not prevail on her to dance with him again, put it out of her power to dance with others.
dickens|Of the two sitters one held the rudderlines, and looked at us attentively,as did all the rowers; the other sitter was wrapped up, much as Provis was, and seemed to shrink, and whisper some instruction to the steerer as he looked at us.
dickens|If you have the heart to think so, returned Biddy, say so.
austen|It was all arranged, it was all completed, and Harriet was safe in Brunswick Square.
dickens|You and your yes, Jerry, said Mr Cruncher, taking a bite out of his breadandbutter, and seeming to help it down with a large invisible oyster out of his saucer.
dickens|Miss Pross, submitting herself to his judgment, the scheme was worked out with care.
dickens|I thanked him, staring at him far beyond the bounds of good manners, and holding tight to Joe.
austen|Soon after you left me on Saturday, I was fortunate enough to find out in what part of London they were.
austen|how I should like to be married before any of you; and then I would chaperon you about to all the balls.
dickens|Then, as I looked up at it, while it dripped, it seemed to my oppressed conscience like a phantom devoting me to the Hulks.
dickens|Where I took her into this wretched breast when it was first bleeding from its stabs, and where I have lavished years of tenderness upon her!
austen|Womans usual occupations of hand and mind will be as open to me then as they are now; or with no important variation.
austen|She heard the carriage drive away as she proceeded up stairs.
dickens|said Miss Pross, cheerfully repressing a sigh as she glanced at her darlings golden hair in the light of the fire, then we must have patience and wait thats all.
dickens|The sights he had seen there, with brief snatches of food and sleep by intervals, shall remain untold.
austen|And my aunt Phillips is sure it would do me a great deal of good,  added Kitty.
austen|So obliging of you!
austen|He now seated himself by her, and talked so agreeably of Kent and Hertfordshire, of travelling and staying at home, of new books and music, that Elizabeth had never been half so well entertained in that room before; and they conversed with so much spirit and flow, as to draw the attention of Lady Catherine herself, as well as of Mr Darcy.
dickens|He knew that he ought to have systematically worked it out and supervised it, and that he had meant to do it, and that it had never been done.
dickens|Tellson and Co.
austen|Neither had anything occurred in the intelligence of their Lambton friends that could materially lessen its weight.
dickens|As we came out of the prison through the lodge, I found that the great importance of my guardian was appreciated by the turnkeys, no less than by those whom they held in charge.
dickens|Joe!
dickens|I never knew Joe to remember anything from one Sunday to another, or to acquire, under my tuition, any piece of information whatever.
austen|Beyond this, it must ever be unintelligible to Emma.
dickens|Peace, aristocrat!
dickens|When his body was found, many miles from the scene of his death, and so horribly disfigured that he was only recognizable by the contents of his pockets, notes were still legible, folded in a case he carried.
dickens|Tell me by all means.
austen|I knew who it came from.
austen|Not even Knightley could be so very eccentric;and his servants forgot it.
austen|Oh no; we all felt that we were going to be only half a mile apart, and were sure of meeting every day.
dickens|You know what a file is?
dickens|Skiffins thats her brother is an accountant and agent.
austen|I could almost assert that you had named Mr Frank Churchill.
austen|I think I have heard you say that their uncle is an attorney in Meryton.
dickens|Now, a judicious selection from these with the least possible delay, and the burying of them, or otherwise getting of them out of harms way, is within the power without loss of precious time of scarcely any one but myself, if any one.
austen|Emma knew that she had, but would not own it; and Mr Elton warmly added,  Oh no!
dickens|Perhaps, they became the restless people they were, in consequence.
dickens|Among the first of these volunteers was Jerry Cruncher himself, who modestly concealed his spiky head from the observation of Tellsons, in the further corner of the mourning coach.
dickens|That these likenesses had grown more numerous, as he, coming over the sea, had drawn nearer.
austen|We are to walk about your gardens, and gather the strawberries ourselves, and sit under trees;and whatever else you may like to provide, it is to be all out of doorsa table spread in the shade, you know.
austen|Between them it was more the intimacy of sisters.
austen|Never mind Miss Lizzys hair.
austen|I shall walk to Meryton tomorrow to hear more about it, and to ask when Mr Denny comes back from town.
austen|As Frank Churchills arrival had succeeded Mr Eltons engagement in the conversation of Highbury, as the latest interest had entirely borne down the first, so now upon Frank Churchills disappearance, Mr Eltons concerns were assuming the most irresistible form.
dickens|Oh!
dickens|Then, between his height and them, he slips in his subordinate,dont you see?
austen|Yes, very true, cried Frank, very true.
dickens|I thought it a little too much that he should complain of being cut short in his flower after all, as if he had not been running to seed, leaf after leaf, ever since his course began.
dickens|I tell thee it never retreats, and never stops.
dickens|How came he to have fallen asleep, in his clothes, on the sofa in Doctor Manettes consultingroom, and to be debating these points outside the Doctors bedroom door in the early morning?
austen|She is a complete angel.
dickens|This being another question hard to answer, Mr Jarvis Lorry withdrew to consider it.
dickens|The panting of the horses communicated a tremulous motion to the coach, as if it were in a state of agitation.
dickens|For which side?
dickens|exclaimed Darnay.
dickens|You are faint of heart tonight, my dear!
austen|Emma had promised; but still Harriet must be excepted.
dickens|Certainly I know it, replied Mr Wopsle.
austen|The two eldest little Knightleys were engaged to pay their grandpapa and aunt a visit of some weeks in the spring, and their papa now proposed bringing them, and staying one whole day at Hartfieldwhich one day would be the very day of this party.
dickens|We are in our private and personal capacities, and we have been engaged in a confidential transaction before today.
austen|Let us have patience.
dickens|Surely, ghosts all.
austen|The younger ones out before the elder ones are married!
dickens|The oath applies to all.
austen|so considerate!
dickens|Who are the few?
austen|In a moment they were all out of the chaise, rejoicing at the sight of each other.
dickens|Do you see what a villain he is?
austen|Harriet Smith might think herself not unworthy of being peculiarly, exclusively, passionately loved by Mr Knightley.
dickens|Those who had been greedy with the staves of the cask, had acquired a tigerish smear about the mouth; and one tall joker so besmirched, his head more out of a long squalid bag of a nightcap than in it, scrawled upon a wall with his finger dipped in muddy wineleesBLOOD.
dickens|Certainly, poor Joe!
dickens|What sort of person?
dickens|Where have you been, you young monkey?
dickens|And, dear sir, what have been betwixt ushave been.
austen|Mr Woodhouse, who had already taken his little round in the highest part of the gardens, where no damps from the river were imagined even by him, stirred no more; and his daughter resolved to remain with him, that Mrs Weston might be persuaded away by her husband to the exercise and variety which her spirits seemed to need.
dickens|Ah!
austen|how dye do?
austen|What do you think?
dickens|But, he went his way, and was soon swallowed up in the shadow of the prison wall.
austen|Not a speck on them.
austen|May its approval beam in that soft eye!
austen|I see the difference plain enough.
austen|Miss Woodhouse, believe me I have not the presumption to suppose Indeed I am not so mad.
dickens|And now that I have given the one chapter to the theme that so filled my heart, and so often made it ache and ache again, I pass on unhindered, to the event that had impended over me longer yet; the event that had begun to be prepared for, before I knew that the world held Estella, and in the days when her baby intelligence was receiving its first distortions from Miss Havishams wasting hands.
dickens|The precious child is safe in bed?
austen|When Mr Bennet arrived, he had all the appearance of his usual philosophic composure.
dickens|He needed no persuasion, and was soon asleep.
dickens|All sorts of people have been proposed to me, but I will have nothing to say to any of them.
dickens|What night is tonight?
austen|You are a gentlemans daughter.
austen|And when she had come away, Mrs Martin was so very kind as to send Mrs Goddard a beautiful goosethe finest goose Mrs Goddard had ever seen.
austen|I have just had a letter from Jane, with such dreadful news.
dickens|But I have my fears.
dickens|I thought the windows of the sets of chambers into which those houses were divided were in every stage of dilapidated blind and curtain, crippled flowerpot, cracked glass, dusty decay, and miserable makeshift; while To Let, To Let, To Let, glared at me from empty rooms, as if no new wretches ever came there, and the vengeance of the soul of Barnard were being slowly appeased by the gradual suicide of the present occupants and their unholy interment under the gravel.
austen|It was not closed, however, it still remained ajar; but by engaging the housekeeper in incessant conversation, she hoped to make it practicable for him to chuse his own subject in the adjoining room.
austen|John, the second, is named after his father.
dickens|When have you found me giving admission here, she touched her bosom with her hand, to anything that you excluded?
austen|My aunt always sends me off when she is shopping.
dickens|His interest in its recovery seemed to me to be much heightened when he heard that it had stockings on.
austen|But my father cannot.
dickens|She will be in a state of mind to impeach the justice of the Republic.
austen|Not handsome enough to dance with!
austen|But really, and upon my honour, I will try to do what I think to be the wisest; and now I hope you are satisfied.
austen|Soon after this Miss Bates came in, and Emma could not help being diverted by the perplexity of her first answer to herself, resulting, she supposed, from doubt of what might be said, and impatience to say every thing.
austen|Elizabeths courage did not fail her.
austen|It is my daily errand.
dickens|He touched me gently on the forehead, and went out.
austen|yesit would be much better to wait till Jane was well, and by that time most likely Captain Carter would be at Meryton again.
austen|She was wanting to see him again, and especially to see him in company with Mrs Weston, upon his behaviour to whom her opinion of him was to depend.
dickens|Doctor, they are very proud, these Nobles; but we common dogs are proud too, sometimes.
austen|The extent of your admiration may take you by surprize some day or other.
dickens|His goods, said Mr Cruncher, after turning it over in his mind, is a branch of Scientific goods.
dickens|They were mostly of a felonious character; comprising the pen with which a celebrated forgery had been committed, a distinguished razor or two, some locks of hair, and several manuscript confessions written under condemnation,upon which Mr Wemmick set particular value as being, to use his own words, every one of em Lies, sir.
dickens|It is true, madame.
austen|Oh!
austen|How far your nephew might approve of your interference in his affairs, I cannot tell; but you have certainly no right to concern yourself in mine.
dickens|Without evincing any inclination to come in again, he there delivered his valedictory remarks.
dickens|Never!
dickens|How often, while he was with me in my illness, had it risen to my lips!
dickens|But not only was there no Constable there, but no discovery had yet been made of the robbery.
dickens|Not but what it might have been for something else; but it warnt.
austen|For my part, Mr Bingley, I always keep servants that can do their own work; my daughters are brought up very differently.
dickens|Everybody started and looked up, as if it were the murderer.
austen|Emma never thinks of herself, if she can do good to others, rejoined Mr Woodhouse, understanding but in part.
dickens|Bless you, I have no business, said Mr Carton.
austen|No scheme could have been more agreeable to Elizabeth, and her acceptance of the invitation was most ready and grateful.
austen|She inquired into Charlottes domestic concerns familiarly and minutely, gave her a great deal of advice as to the management of them all; told her how everything ought to be regulated in so small a family as hers, and instructed her as to the care of her cows and her poultry.
dickens|Isnt it just barely possible that Uncle Pumblechook may be a tenant of hers, and that he may sometimeswe wont say quarterly or halfyearly, for that would be requiring too much of youbut sometimesgo there to pay his rent?
dickens|In her name, then, let it be done; I sanction it.
dickens|There are only four of us.
austen|No, upon my honour, there is no unsteadiness of character.
dickens|It had happened some three or four years then, he said, and you brought into his mind the little girl so tragically lost, who would have been about your age.
austen|I am going to London, to spend a few days with John and Isabella.
dickens|A little woodsawyer, having closed his shop, was smoking his pipe at his shopdoor.
dickens|Then you have left the forge?
austen|Was it new for any thing in this world to be unequal, inconsistent, incongruousor for chance and circumstance as second causes to direct the human fate?
dickens|Lets have a wedding.
austen|I certainly saw Mr Darcy speaking to her.
dickens|Wemmick was at his desk, lunchingand crunchingon a dry hard biscuit; pieces of which he threw from time to time into his slit of a mouth, as if he were posting them.
austen|Miss Smith!
dickens|You dont mind admitting that, I suppose?
dickens|You have my certificate in your hand with the rest, you know, and will reserve my place.
dickens|Mr Lorry reddened, and said, warmly, You have mentioned that before, sir.
dickens|said I.
dickens|If hes always right which in general hes more likely wrong, hes right when he says this Supposing ever you kep any little matter to yourself, when you was a little child, you kep it mostly because you knowd as J.
dickens|He closed the lattice again with a fluttering heart, closed the window and the curtain, hastened to Lucie, and told her that her father was assisted by the people, and gone in search of her husband.
dickens|O dear, good, compassionate sir, for the truth!
austen|Good gracious!
dickens|and Camilla add, with indignation, Was there ever such a fancy!
austen|He promised to come to me as soon as he could disengage himself from Knightley; but he and Knightley are shut up together in deep consultation.
austen|you were perfectly right!
austen|He had left them completely frightened; and Harriet eagerly clinging to him, and hardly able to speak, had just strength enough to reach Hartfield, before her spirits were quite overcome.
dickens|Very little of these trades, or of a lonely lodger rumoured to live upstairs, or of a dim coachtrimming maker asserted to have a countinghouse below, was ever heard or seen.
austen|We really are so shocked!
dickens|Come on!
dickens|Its a dreadful remembrance.
austen|But consideryou need not be afraid of delegating power to me.
dickens|Go on, please.
dickens|By that time the river had lifted us a little, so that we could see above the bank.
dickens|Pips a gentleman of fortun then, said Joe, and God bless him in it!
austen|But people themselves alter so much, that there is something new to be observed in them for ever.
dickens|Ha, ha!
austen|Elizabeth took leave of the whole party in the liveliest of spirits.
austen|We cannot suppose, said Emma, smiling, that Mr Elton would hesitate to assure you of there being a very musical society in Highbury; and I hope you will not find he has outstepped the truth more than may be pardoned, in consideration of the motive.
dickens|I was alone with her, when her forlorn young head drooped gently on one side, and all her earthly wrongs and sorrows ended.
dickens|Youre out in your reading of Hamlet when you get your legs in profile.
austen|He made her an offer in this very room, and she refused him.
dickens|I had never been struck at so keenly, for my thanklessness to Joe, as through the brazen impostor Pumblechook.
austen|Another day I will do the same; I will sit in my library, in my nightcap and powdering gown, and give as much trouble as I can; or, perhaps, I may defer it till Kitty runs away.
austen|She had never heard of him before his entrance into the shire Militia, in which he had engaged at the persuasion of the young man who, on meeting him accidentally in town, had there renewed a slight acquaintance.
austen|Girls, can I do anything for you in Meryton?
dickens|The valet come and gone, Monsieur the Marquis walked to and fro in his loose chamberrobe, to prepare himself gently for sleep, that hot still night.
dickens|He opened this, carefully, on his knee, and it contained a very little quantity of hair not more than one or two long golden hairs, which he had, in some old day, wound off upon his finger.
austen|But the sight of Mr Knightley among the most attentive, soon drew away half Emmas mind; and she fell into a train of thinking on the subject of Mrs Westons suspicions, to which the sweet sounds of the united voices gave only momentary interruptions.
dickens|She stood, like a spirit, beside him, and he bent over his work.
dickens|In the black prison of the Conciergerie, the doomed of the day awaited their fate.
dickens|Say on.
austen|The contents of this letter threw Elizabeth into a flutter of spirits, in which it was difficult to determine whether pleasure or pain bore the greatest share.
dickens|cried Carton, striking his open hand on the table, as a light broke clearly on his mind.
austen|Mrs Elton began to think she had been wrong in disclaiming so warmly.
austen|He had not much intercourse with any families beyond that circle; his horror of late hours, and large dinnerparties, made him unfit for any acquaintance but such as would visit him on his own terms.
austen|Ah!
austen|Business, you know, may bring money, but friendship hardly ever does.
dickens|How long, I asked, has this lasted?
dickens|Any how, I sat with my elbow on my knee and my face upon my hand, looking into the fire, as those two talked about my going away, and about what they should do without me, and all that.
austen|Yes; where else can they be so well concealed?
dickens|Now, Mr Cruncher, said Miss Pross, whose eyes were red with felicity; if you are ready, I am.
dickens|This was the only retortexcept glass or crockerythat the heavy creature was capable of making; but, I became as highly incensed by it as if it had been barbed with wit, and I immediately rose in my place and said that I could not but regard it as being like the honorable Finchs impudence to come down to that Grove,we always talked about coming down to that Grove, as a neat Parliamentary turn of expression,down to that Grove, proposing a lady of whom he knew nothing.
dickens|This changed the subject in an instant, and made us hurriedly resolve to go to the play.
dickens|Youre dead.
dickens|To propose too much, would be to put this mans head under the axe, and, as he himself said, nothing worse could happen to him if he were denounced.
austen|At length, however, his civility was so far awakened as to inquire of Elizabeth after the health of her family.
austen|Have a little compassion on my nerves.
dickens|What else?
austen|Mrs Phillipss vulgarity was another, and perhaps a greater, tax on his forbearance; and though Mrs Phillips, as well as her sister, stood in too much awe of him to speak with the familiarity which Bingleys good humour encouraged, yet, whenever she did speak, she must be vulgar.
dickens|He even showed surprise when he saw Mr Lorry, and was altogether in an absent and preoccupied state.
austen|Perry was a week at Cromer once, and he holds it to be the best of all the seabathing places.
austen|They stood a little aloof while he was talking to their niece, who, astonished and confused, scarcely dared lift her eyes to his face, and knew not what answer she returned to his civil inquiries after her family.
austen|Jamess, Sir William was so completely awed by the grandeur surrounding him, that he had but just courage enough to make a very low bow, and take his seat without saying a word; and his daughter, frightened almost out of her senses, sat on the edge of her chair, not knowing which way to look.
dickens|I told him when I had arrived, and how Miss Havisham had wished me to come and see Estella.
dickens|There is a guard of sundry horsemen riding abreast of the tumbrils, and faces are often turned up to some of them, and they are asked some question.
austen|Robert Martin and Harriet Smith, the latest couple engaged of the three, were the first to be married.
dickens|We should know at what time to expect them, according to where we were, and would hail the first; so that, if by any accident we were not taken abroad, we should have another chance.
austen|Elizabeth here felt herself called on to say something in vindication of his behaviour to Wickham; and therefore gave them to understand, in as guarded a manner as she could, that by what she had heard from his relations in Kent, his actions were capable of a very different construction; and that his character was by no means so faulty, nor Wickhams so amiable, as they had been considered in Hertfordshire.
austen|He does seem to have suffered in finding her ill.
austen|That is to say, you had given your permission.
dickens|As I was telling you last night when Lucie came in so unexpectedly, I have at length done all that I can do here.
dickens|So, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, passed; and on Friday morning I went to Mr Pumblechooks, to put on my new clothes and pay my visit to Miss Havisham.
dickens|The accursed was already under the carriage with some halfdozen particular friends, pointing out the chain with his blue cap.
austen|Hear me in silence.
austen|Tell me, I charge you tell me this moment what it is.
austen|It was impossible to imagine; it was impossible not to long to know.
dickens|You speak collectedly, and youare collected.
dickens|I can bear it, dear Charles.
austen|yes.
dickens|Cramped in all kinds of dim cupboards and hutches at Tellsons, the oldest of men carried on the business gravely.
dickens|Then, at the back, said Wemmick, out of sight, so as not to impede the idea of fortifications,for its a principle with me, if you have an idea, carry it out and keep it up,I dont know whether thats your opinion  I said, decidedly.
dickens|I have sometimes sat alone here of an evening, listening, until I have made the echoes out to be the echoes of all the footsteps that are coming byandbye into our lives.
austen|She would not let Jane say, No; for when Jane first heard of it, it was the day before yesterday, the very morning we were at Donwell, when Jane first heard of it, she was quite decided against accepting the offer, and for the reasons you mention; exactly as you say, she had made up her mind to close with nothing till Colonel Campbells return, and nothing should induce her to enter into any engagement at presentand so she told Mrs Elton over and over againand I am sure I had no more idea that she would change her mind!
austen|But Mr John Knightley must be in London again by the end of the first week in November.
dickens|the guard sang out, as loud as he could roar.
austen|He had made his fortune, bought his house, and obtained his wife; and was beginning a new period of existence, with every probability of greater happiness than in any yet passed through.
dickens|It was an infamous prosecution, grossly infamous; but not the less likely to succeed on that account.
dickens|He was not long in discovering that it was worse than useless to speak to him, since, on being pressed, he became worried.
dickens|The brothers were waiting in a room downstairs, impatient to ride away.
dickens|My thoughts passed into the great room across the landing where the table was spread, and I saw it written, as it were, in the falls of the cobwebs from the centrepiece, in the crawlings of the spiders on the cloth, in the tracks of the mice as they betook their little quickened hearts behind the panels, and in the gropings and pausings of the beetles on the floor.
dickens|Indeed, I go so far as to hope that I regarded myself while dressing as a species of savage young wolf or other wild beast.
austen|I honour that part of the attention particularly; it shews it to have been so thoroughly from the heart.
dickens|Certainly not so many.
austen|A worthy employment for a young ladys mind!
austen|The distance is nothing when one has a motive; only three miles.
austen|But there was no doing any thing, with Mr Elton fidgeting behind her and watching every touch.
dickens|said Mr Jaggers at last, as he moved towards the papers on the table.
dickens|And I doubt if even youll go so far as that.
dickens|I smashed his face.
austen|Do not you, Darcy?
austen|I was going to observe, sir, said Frank Churchill, that one of the great recommendations of this change would be the very little danger of any bodys catching coldso much less danger at the Crown than at Randalls!
dickens|said I.
austen|Well, I had always rather fancied it would be some young lady hereabouts; not that I everMrs Cole once whispered to mebut I immediately said, No, Mr Elton is a most worthy young manbutIn short, I do not think I am particularly quick at those sort of discoveries.
austen|I should not mind walking half the way.
dickens|The course terminated, and Mr Pumblechook had begun to beam under the genial influence of gin and water.
dickens|There is nothing more to do, said he, glancing upward at the moon, until tomorrow.
austen|A man who had been in motion since eight oclock in the morning, and might now have been still, who had been long talking, and might have been silent, who had been in more than one crowd, and might have been alone!
austen|But it has been the study of my life to avoid those weaknesses which often expose a strong understanding to ridicule.
austen|In society so superior to what she had generally known, her improvement was great.
dickens|Formerly, they were turned towards the postinghouse; now, they are turned towards the prison.
austen|Oh!
austen|But perhaps you have been too pleasantly engaged to think of any third person; in which case you may be sure of my pardon.
dickens|At least?
austen|I desire you to stay where you are.
dickens|Joe, I interrupted, pettishly, how can you call me, sir?
austen|Aye, pray do, said Mr Frank Churchill, Miss Woodhouses opinion of the instrument will be worth having.
dickens|Mr Pip, there are about seven hundred thieves in this town who know all about that watch; theres not a man, a woman, or a child, among them, who wouldnt identify the smallest link in that chain, and drop it as if it was red hot, if inveigled into touching it.
austen|To know that her daughter would be married was enough.
dickens|The only time.
austen|How abominable!
austen|But when her mother was gone, Jane would not be prevailed on to go down without one of her sisters.
dickens|With a solemn interest in the lighted windows where the people were going to rest, forgetful through a few calm hours of the horrors surrounding them; in the towers of the churches, where no prayers were said, for the popular revulsion had even travelled that length of selfdestruction from years of priestly impostors, plunderers, and profligates; in the distant burialplaces, reserved, as they wrote upon the gates, for Eternal Sleep; in the abounding gaols; and in the streets along which the sixties rolled to a death which had become so common and material, that no sorrowful story of a haunting Spirit ever arose among the people out of all the working of the Guillotine; with a solemn interest in the whole life and death of the city settling down to its short nightly pause in fury; Sydney Carton crossed the Seine again for the lighter streets.
austen|But I am afraid you are giving it a turn which that gentleman did by no means intend; for he would certainly think better of me, if under such a circumstance I were to give a flat denial, and ride off as fast as I could.
austen|Mr Darcy bowed.
austen|His wife represented to him how absolutely necessary such an attention would be from all the neighbouring gentlemen, on his returning to Netherfield.
austen|Nay, dear Emma, now I must take his part; for though he has been wrong in this instance, I have known him long enough to answer for his having many, very many, good qualities; and  Good God!
austen|Oh!
dickens|You are right, said Drummle.
dickens|Who took him out of it?
dickens|You have no more natral sense of duty than the bed of this here Thames river has of a pile, and similarly it must be knocked into you.
austen|I have heard him say that he could listen to her for ever.
austen|The prospect before her now, was threatening to a degree that could not be entirely dispelledthat might not be even partially brightened.
austen|Mr Weston had been so very earnest in his entreaties for her arriving there as soon as possible after themselves, for the purpose of taking her opinion as to the propriety and comfort of the rooms before any other persons came, that she could not refuse him, and must therefore spend some quiet interval in the young mans company.
dickens|With that, we returned to her room, and sat down as before; I was beggared, as before; and again, as before, Miss Havisham watched us all the time, directed my attention to Estellas beauty, and made me notice it the more by trying her jewels on Estellas breast and hair.
austen|No, my dear, you had better go on horseback, because it seems likely to rain; and then you must stay all night.
dickens|Having ascertained its situation, Carton came out of those closer streets again, and dined at a place of refreshment and fell sound asleep after dinner.
austen|She was now in an irritation as violent from delight, as she had ever been fidgety from alarm and vexation.
dickens|What a change you have made in yourself!
dickens|Do so, implicitly.
dickens|But I felt that the kiss was given to the coarse common boy as a piece of money might have been, and that it was worth nothing.
dickens|How do I know!
dickens|There appeared to be reason for supposing that the drowned informer had hoped for a reward out of this forfeiture, and had obtained some accurate knowledge of Magwitchs affairs.
dickens|Its terrible, Joe; aint it?
austen|And yet I meant to be uncommonly clever in taking so decided a dislike to him, without any reason.
austen|Oh!
austen|Charlotte assured her friend of her satisfaction in being useful, and that it amply repaid her for the little sacrifice of her time.
austen|Mrs Reynolds respect for Elizabeth seemed to increase on this intimation of her knowing her master.
dickens|So much was done and gone, that when I went out at the gate, the light of the day seemed of a darker color than when I went in.
dickens|True.
austen|After this, he made some progress without any pause.
austen|Well, time does fly indeed!
austen|This is a new resolution.
austen|how so?
austen|I believe you were glad we danced no longer; but I would have given worldsall the worlds one ever has to givefor another halfhour.
dickens|It was a smooth way of going on, perhaps, in respect of saving trouble; but it had the appearance of being expensive, for the servants felt it a duty they owed to themselves to be nice in their eating and drinking, and to keep a deal of company downstairs.
austen|After welcoming their sisters, they triumphantly displayed a table set out with such cold meat as an inn larder usually affords, exclaiming, Is not this nice?
dickens|It cant be, said the spy.
dickens|But he would have much, said Wemmick, cutting me short, and they know it.
austen|Now, however, it was absolutely to be; every preparation was resumed, and very soon after the Churchills had removed to Richmond, a few lines from Frank, to say that his aunt felt already much better for the change, and that he had no doubt of being able to join them for twentyfour hours at any given time, induced them to name as early a day as possible.
dickens|I understand equally well, that a word from her father in any suitors favour, would outweigh herself and all the world.
dickens|There had been more of early brooding than drinking; for, many men had listened and whispered and slunk about there from the time of the opening of the door, who could not have laid a piece of money on the counter to save their souls.
austen|Little Henry was in her thoughts, and a mixture of alarm and delicacy made her irresolute what else to say.
dickens|I would dress at once and go to his room and surprise him; for, it was the first day I had been up early.
austen|Mr Darcy may perhaps have heard of such a place as Gracechurch Street, but he would hardly think a months ablution enough to cleanse him from its impurities, were he once to enter it; and depend upon it, Mr Bingley never stirs without him.
dickens|Were you travelling alone, Mr Lorry, or with any companion?
dickens|And yet you have spoken to her?
austen|She says she is afraid there will be draughts in the passage, though every thing has been doneOne door nailed upQuantities of mattingMy dear Jane, indeed you must.
dickens|It did not appear quite so unlikely to me that evening, as it would have done if we had discussed it a few hours before.
dickens|She kissed the boy, and said, caressing him, It is for thine own dear sake.
austen|It became her turn to listen.
austen|Elizabeth was disgusted, and even Miss Bennet was shocked.
dickens|Stryver never had a case in hand, anywhere, but Carton was there, with his hands in his pockets, staring at the ceiling of the court; they went the same Circuit, and even there they prolonged their usual orgies late into the night, and Carton was rumoured to be seen at broad day, going home stealthily and unsteadily to his lodgings, like a dissipated cat.
dickens|Theres Matthew!
austen|Such, for half an hour, was the conversationinterrupted only once by Mrs Weston, who came out, in her solicitude after her soninlaw, to inquire if he were comeand she was a little uneasy.
dickens|Had not procured them himself, for instance?
austen|She was not to see Frank Churchill this morning.
austen|Going to the postoffice in the rain!
austen|And, after proceeding a few steps, she addedI stopped you ungraciously, just now, Mr Knightley, and, I am afraid, gave you pain.
dickens|Mere messages in the earthly order of events had lately come to the English Crown and People, from a congress of British subjects in America which, strange to relate, have proved more important to the human race than any communications yet received through any of the chickens of the Cocklane brood.
austen|Did you ever hear any thing so strange?
dickens|But he was asleep, and quietly too, though he had a pistol lying on the pillow.
austen|The magistrates, and overseers, and churchwardens, are always wanting his opinion.
austen|Emma knew this was too true for contradiction, and therefore said nothing.
dickens|A crown to drink.
dickens|One drawbridge down!
austen|Oh, dear, cried Harriet, now I recollect what you mean; but I was thinking of something very different at the time.
dickens|And all friends is no backerder, if not no forarder.
dickens|What nervous folly made me start, and awfully connect it with the footstep of my dead sister, matters not.
austen|Judge between us.
dickens|Here, Mr Lorry became aware, from where he sat, of a most remarkable goblin shadow on the wall.
austen|so you say; but I cannot believe it.
dickens|And on what evidence, Pip, asked Mr Jaggers, very coolly, as he paused with his handkerchief half way to his nose, does Provis make this claim?
dickens|said he.
dickens|I knew nothing then of the discoveries that are occasionally made of bodies buried in ancient times, which fall to powder in the moment of being distinctly seen; but, I have often thought since, that she must have looked as if the admission of the natural light of day would have struck her to dust.
dickens|He was in a Decline, and was a shadow to look at.
dickens|How was this?
dickens|Treason!
dickens|Rum, said Mr Wopsle.
dickens|asked Mrs Pocket.
dickens|That is to say, supposing I had had no expectations, and yet had had Estella to think of, I could not make out to my satisfaction that I should have done much better.
austen|I was ready to die of laughter.
dickens|replied the landlord.
austen|Is there nobody you would not rather?
dickens|I wonder you are not ashamed to mention the name of Lucie!
dickens|Joe threw his eye over them, and pronounced that the job would necessitate the lighting of his forge fire, and would take nearer two hours than one.
dickens|There was a low plastered ceiling to a part of it; the rest was open, to the ridge of the tiled roof, and there were beams across.
dickens|Just so.
dickens|Is who dead, dear boy?
dickens|Well, Pip; this same identical, which his manners is given to blusterous, come to me at the Bargemen wot a pipe and a pint of beer do give refreshment to the workingman, sir, and do not over stimilate, and his word were, Joseph, Miss Havisham she wish to speak to you.
austen|Whom did he ever want to consult on business but Mr Knightley?
austen|No, I have never had such an idea, and I cannot adopt it now.
austen|He was gone long enough to have had a very comfortable meal, and came back all the bettergrown quite cooland, with good manners, like himselfable to draw a chair close to them, take an interest in their employment; and regret, in a reasonable way, that he should be so late.
dickens|I could not believe it to be you.
dickens|Unanimously voted.
dickens|All right, John, all right!
dickens|She kisses his lips; he kisses hers; they solemnly bless each other.
austen|And a delightful dance it was to be.
dickens|Eh, well!
dickens|On the drunken occasion in question one of a large number, as you know, I was insufferable about liking you, and not liking you.
austen|It must, if I were not here.
dickens|Madame Defarge and monsieur her husband returned amicably to the bosom of Saint Antoine, while a speck in a blue cap toiled through the darkness, and through the dust, and down the weary miles of avenue by the wayside, slowly tending towards that point of the compass where the chateau of Monsieur the Marquis, now in his grave, listened to the whispering trees.
dickens|It was you as did for your shrew sister.
dickens|He produced a long purse, with the greatest coolness, and counted them out on the table and pushed them over to me.
dickens|Make the best of your way.
austen|I cannot really change for the better.
austen|It is unaccountable!
dickens|On Sundays he mostly lay all day on the sluicegates, or stood against ricks and barns.
austen|I certainly shall not.
austen|He listened to her with perfect indifference while she chose to entertain herself in this manner; and as his composure convinced her that all was safe, her wit flowed long.
austen|I shall never forget it.
dickens|Take time.
dickens|She is thousands of miles away, from me,  said I.
dickens|Mrs Brandley had been a friend of Miss Havishams before the time of her seclusion.
dickens|said Biddy.
austen|I only fear that the sort of cautiousness to which you, I imagine, have been alluding, is merely adopted on his visits to his aunt, of whose good opinion and judgement he stands much in awe.
austen|We shall be always meeting!
austen|Bingley of course returned with him to dinner; and in the evening Mrs Bennets invention was again at work to get every body away from him and her daughter.
austen|But Jane, it seems, had a letter from them very lately, and not a word was said about it.
austen|Emma was in the humour to value simplicity and modesty to the utmost; and all that was amiable, all that ought to be attaching, seemed on Harriets side, not her own.
austen|That is what you have in your head, I knowand what you would certainly say if my father were not by.
dickens|Occasionally, he was tripped up by some orthographical stumblingblock; but on the whole he got on very well indeed; and when he had signed his name, and had removed a finishing blot from the paper to the crown of his head with his two forefingers, he got up and hovered about the table, trying the effect of his performance from various points of view, as it lay there, with unbounded satisfaction.
dickens|It is likely enough that, rooted in the woods of France and Norway, there were growing trees, when that sufferer was put to death, already marked by the Woodman, Fate, to come down and be sawn into boards, to make a certain movable framework with a sack and a knife in it, terrible in history.
dickens|said Mr Cruncher, ruminating, with his mind much disturbed; wots come to her?
dickens|As the smoke cleared, leaving an awful stillness, it passed out on the air, like the soul of the furious woman whose body lay lifeless on the ground.
dickens|For if he had ever been out of my thoughts for a few moments together since the hiding had begun, it was in those very moments when he was closest to me; and to think that I should be so unconscious and off my guard after all my care was as if I had shut an avenue of a hundred doors to keep him out, and then had found him at my elbow.
austen|I managed it extremely well.
dickens|But, there my Lord interposed with as grave a face as if it had not been true, saying that he could not sit upon that Bench and suffer those allusions.
dickens|To return to the man and make an end of him.
austen|Her father never went beyond the shrubbery, where two divisions of the ground sufficed him for his long walk, or his short, as the year varied; and since Mrs Westons marriage her exercise had been too much confined.
austen|Were you really?
dickens|For she rose up in the chair, in her shroud of a dress, and struck at the air as if she would as soon have struck herself against the wall and fallen dead.
austen|do the children grow?
dickens|It is a young ladys walkingshoe.
austen|But he is an ugly fellow!
austen|As the day of his arrival drew near,  I begin to be sorry that he comes at all, said Jane to her sister.
austen|She was a plain, motherly kind of woman, who had worked hard in her youth, and now thought herself entitled to the occasional holiday of a teavisit; and having formerly owed much to Mr Woodhouses kindness, felt his particular claim on her to leave her neat parlour, hung round with fancywork, whenever she could, and win or lose a few sixpences by his fireside.
dickens|Recounting tonights triumph?
dickens|By the by, the guns is going again.
dickens|And he was so very free of the wine that he even called for the other bottle, and handed that about with the same liberality, when the first was gone.
austen|She listened, and found it well worth listening to.
dickens|Very well; then you may go.
austen|You have insulted me in every possible method.
dickens|He is not, returned the clerk.
dickens|We have not half enough as it is.
dickens|He dismissed her, and she glided out of the room.
austen|But she probably had something of that in her thoughts, when alluding to the misunderstandings which he had given us hints of before.
dickens|Magwitch, he answered, in the same tone; chrisend Abel.
austen|If I had set my heart on Mr Eltons marrying Harriet, it would have been very kind to open my eyes; but at present I only want to keep Harriet to myself.
dickens|I may truly say Ive never had this apron of mine off since born you were.
dickens|Come!
austen|Bingley met them with hopes that Mrs Bennet had not found Miss Bennet worse than she expected.
dickens|After this odd description of his daily routine of employment, Mr Lorry flattened his flaxen wig upon his head with both hands which was most unnecessary, for nothing could be flatter than its shining surface was before, and resumed his former attitude.
dickens|Something that you would like done, is it not?
dickens|Has Wemmick got it?
dickens|Now?
dickens|The joker rapped it with his own, took a nimble spring upward, and came down in a fantastic dancing attitude, with one of his stained shoes jerked off his foot into his hand, and held out.
austen|She put down the letter, weighed every circumstance with what she meant to be impartialitydeliberated on the probability of each statementbut with little success.
dickens|I am an Englishwoman.
austen|You are considering how insupportable it would be to pass many evenings in this mannerin such society; and indeed I am quite of your opinion.
dickens|He wore a flapping broadbrimmed travellers hat, and under it a handkerchief tied over his head in the manner of a cap so that he showed no hair.
dickens|I am, as you say, at a disadvantage.
austen|Lizzy declares she will not have Mr Collins, and Mr Collins begins to say that he will not have Lizzy.
austen|I meant to take them over to John Saunders the first thing I did, but something or other hindered me all the morning; first one thing, then another, there is no saying what, you know.
austen|Another entreaty that she would be serious, however, produced the desired effect; and she soon satisfied Jane by her solemn assurances of attachment.
dickens|Dont shrink from anything I say.
austen|You promised me to insist upon her marrying him.
austen|They would doubtless be congenial with the generality of female minds.
dickens|A man may have had a misfortun and been in the Church, said Joe, lowering his voice to an argumentative and feeling tone, but that is no reason why you should put him out at such a time.
austen|The ladies were somewhat more fortunate, for they had the advantage of ascertaining from an upper window that he wore a blue coat, and rode a black horse.
dickens|He said to that, Let me make you a present of the best fowl in the shop.
austen|Oh, Lizzy!
dickens|They so harnessed him and drove him.
dickens|Then, the grey water of both began to be ghostly in the light, and the eyes of the stone faces of the chateau were opened.
austen|Let no name ever pass our lips.
dickens|Handcuffs there!
dickens|Their keeper had a brace of pistols, and carried a thickknobbed bludgeon under his arm; but he was on terms of good understanding with them, and stood with them beside him, looking on at the puttingto of the horses, rather with an air as if the convicts were an interesting Exhibition not formally open at the moment, and he the Curator.
austen|Their visits to Mrs Phillips were now productive of the most interesting intelligence.
dickens|To the office?
austen|I am only afraid of your sitting up for me.
dickens|The door slowly opened inward under his hand, and he looked into the room and said something.
dickens|I said, Indeed?
dickens|In the glow, the water of the chateau fountain seemed to turn to blood, and the stone faces crimsoned.
austen|I do not know, my dear.
austen|Society, I own, is necessary to me.
dickens|He came back to where I stood, and again held out both his hands.
austen|It had been settled in the evening between the aunt and the niece, that such a striking civility as Miss Darcys in coming to see them on the very day of her arrival at Pemberley, for she had reached it only to a late breakfast, ought to be imitated, though it could not be equalled, by some exertion of politeness on their side; and, consequently, that it would be highly expedient to wait on her at Pemberley the following morning.
austen|To Bath, or to Clifton?
austen|He made no answer; merely looked, and bowed in submission; and soon afterwards said, in a lively tone,  Well, I have so little confidence in my own judgment, that whenever I marry, I hope some body will chuse my wife for me.
dickens|Let him break into as many pieces as he will, the sword that he stained with my common blood; he drew to defend himselfthrust at me with all his skill for his life.
dickens|My fellowcitizen here would have it fortytwo; ten more heads are worth having.
dickens|Monseigneur, the good God knows; but I dont ask it.
austen|He had wanted very much to go abroadhad been very eager indeed to be allowed to travelbut she would not hear of it.
austen|He stays till tomorrow, and Miss Fairfax has been persuaded to spend the day with us.
austen|How could you suppose me ignorant?
austen|It is what we happily have never known any thing of; but it must be a life of misery.
dickens|Do you ask me for my advice, Mr Stryver?
dickens|But, I had already considered that such a course, by detaining us there, or binding us to come back, might be fatal to Provis.
austen|What felicity it is to hear a tune again which has made one happy!
austen|He could say no more; and with the hope of Hartfield to reward him, returned with Mrs Weston to Mrs Batess door.
dickens|There was a melancholy wind, and the marshes were very dismal.
dickens|Mr Barsad.
dickens|Thered be two sides to it.
austen|Such an elevation on her side!
dickens|And I was so aggravated that I almost doubt if I did know.
austen|Her father, captivated by youth and beauty, and that appearance of good humour which youth and beauty generally give, had married a woman whose weak understanding and illiberal mind had very early in their marriage put an end to all real affection for her.
dickens|I aint a going to be low.
dickens|I can walk quite strongly.
dickens|Good.
dickens|As to me, I think my sister must have had some general idea that I was a young offender whom an Accoucheur Policeman had taken up on my birthday and delivered over to her, to be dealt with according to the outraged majesty of the law.
dickens|I am to have a carriage, and you are to take me.
austen|Nobody cares for a letter; the thing is, to be always happy with pleasant companions.
austen|Poor creatures!
dickens|Could you favour me, in confidence, with some minutes of your companyat the office of Tellsons Bank, for instance?
austen|Every door was now closed, the passage plan given up, and the first scheme of dancing only in the room they were in resorted to again; and with such goodwill on Frank Churchills part, that the space which a quarter of an hour before had been deemed barely sufficient for five couple, was now endeavoured to be made out quite enough for ten.
austen|If he were, he would have done this differently.
dickens|Her entrapped hand was on the table, but she had already put her other hand behind her waist.
dickens|Louder yet, Vengeance, with a little oath or so added, and yet it will hardly bring her.
austen|Well, said Mrs Weston, smiling, you give him credit for more simple, disinterested benevolence in this instance than I do; for while Miss Bates was speaking, a suspicion darted into my head, and I have never been able to get it out again.
dickens|I asked leave to  He lapsed away, even for minutes, ringing those measured changes on his hands the whole time.
austen|It is impossible.
dickens|I dont care an English Twopence for myself.
dickens|The torches we carried dropped great blotches of fire upon the track, and I could see those, too, lying smoking and flaring.
dickens|I thus became aware of the mutual relations between them and Mr Pocket, which were exemplified in the following manner.
austen|Oh, Lizzy!
austen|Within a fortnight.
dickens|But I have forgotten one thing.
dickens|Thats it!
austen|Not all that Mrs Bennet, however, with the assistance of her five daughters, could ask on the subject, was sufficient to draw from her husband any satisfactory description of Mr Bingley.
dickens|Of course, I am.
dickens|In a very few minutes the waiter came in to announce that Miss Manette had arrived from London, and would be happy to see the gentleman from Tellsons.
austen|He never read the Romance of the Forest, nor The Children of the Abbey.
dickens|Never in a debtors prison?
dickens|I had believed in the best parlor as a most elegant saloon; I had believed in the front door, as a mysterious portal of the Temple of State whose solemn opening was attended with a sacrifice of roast fowls; I had believed in the kitchen as a chaste though not magnificent apartment; I had believed in the forge as the glowing road to manhood and independence.
dickens|On a lightlysnowing afternoon she arrived at the usual corner.
austen|Oh!
dickens|And why, do you suppose, above all things, Pip, she left that cool four thousand unto him?
dickens|Brandy, said I.
austen|You are very fond of bending little minds; but where little minds belong to rich people in authority, I think they have a knack of swelling out, till they are quite as unmanageable as great ones.
austen|He has those to please who must be pleased, and who between ourselves are sometimes to be pleased only by a good many sacrifices.
dickens|There, there!
austen|Both changed colour, one looked white, the other red.
dickens|Im sorry there werent a flag, Pip.
dickens|Have you happened to miss such an article as a pie, blacksmith?
austen|It is particularly incumbent on those who never change their opinion, to be secure of judging properly at first.
dickens|No, no.
dickens|My only other remembrances of the great festival are, That they wouldnt let me go to sleep, but whenever they saw me dropping off, woke me up and told me to enjoy myself.
dickens|Ah!
dickens|Your poor sister is much the same as when you left.
austen|I could not have visited Mrs Robert Martin, of AbbeyMill Farm.
austen|It would not be a bad thing for her to be very much in love with a proper object.
austen|Till the next morning, however, she was not aware of all the felicity of her contrivance.
dickens|He hant no call to say so.
austen|If he does not come to me, then, said she, I shall give him up for ever.
dickens|She took the first opportunity of angrily ordering my father out of the house, in his presence, and my father has never seen her since.
austen|I have heard her every year of our lives since we both began.
dickens|As early as six oclock in the morning, sallow faces peeping through its barred windows had descried other faces within, bending over measures of wine.
dickens|So, the time came for him to bid Lucie good night, and they separated.
dickens|It was a gentle action, but not at all gently done; a very remarkable transformation had come over him in a few seconds.
dickens|But what, said Mr Jaggers, swinging his purse,what if it was in my instructions to make you a present, as compensation?
dickens|Thankee dear boy, thankee.
austen|It is unlucky, said she, after a short pause, that you should not be able to see your friends before they leave the country.
dickens|Now that you have come, I think you will do something to help mamma, something to save papa!
dickens|When that person discloses, my part in this business will cease and determine.
dickens|There was a clock in the outer wall of this house.
dickens|I was passing out without looking at her, when she touched me with a taunting hand.
austen|How nicely you talk; I love to hear you.
austen|I would advise you merely to put on whatever of your clothes is superior to the restthere is no occasion for anything more.
austen|He would be so very....
dickens|Yees, sir, returned Jerry, in something of a dogged manner.
austen|It is on her account that attention to Randalls is doubly due, and she must doubly feel the omission.
dickens|Be that as it may, it did arise, and was not brought about by any one.
dickens|The blotchy, sprawly, sulky fellow.
dickens|What might have been your opinion of the place?
dickens|I have already said, that for my prospering there, I am sensible I may be indebted to you, sir.
austen|The carriage!
dickens|How was he dressed?
austen|Mr Weston was to call in the evening, and she must return it by him.
austen|Mamma would like to go too of all things!
dickens|I quite understand it to be a nice question.
dickens|The hoarse messenger, uncomfortably seated on a form after taking that refection, had dropped into a doze, when a loud murmur and a rapid tide of people setting up the stairs that led to the court, carried him along with them.
austen|Respect would be added to affection.
dickens|I thought it a strange thing then, and I thought it a stranger thing long afterwards.
dickens|Saint Antoine was clamorous to have its wineshop keeper foremost in the guard upon the governor who had defended the Bastille and shot the people.
austen|Have you never at any time had reason to think that he admired her, or that she admired him?
austen|Certainly, I can have no doubt of his being fond of her.
dickens|All adust and athirst, the two entered the wineshop.
austen|I have nothing either to hope or fear, and nothing to reproach him with.
dickens|Well, that ud be imposing, too, on Tellsons.
dickens|I did, Joe.
dickens|And pray what might you want with him?
austen|The perpetual commendations of the lady, either on his handwriting, or on the evenness of his lines, or on the length of his letter, with the perfect unconcern with which her praises were received, formed a curious dialogue, and was exactly in union with her opinion of each.
dickens|I told him I would do so, with all the interest and curiosity that his preparation awakened.
dickens|Pursuing the subject, I inquired,  Didnt you ever go to school, Joe, when you were as little as me?
austen|He stopped.
austen|In her mother she lost the only person able to cope with her.
austen|Had the same behaviour continued, Miss Smith might have been led into a misconception of your views; not being aware, probably, any more than myself, of the very great inequality which you are so sensible of.
dickens|The officers looked towards the soldiers who looked at the fire; gave no orders; and answered, with shrugs and biting of lips, It must burn.
austen|And Jane Fairfax, too, of all women!
dickens|On Sundays, she went to church elaborated.
dickens|The precaution that had been taken to account for his silence, Mr Lorry had previously explained to him, and he had written to Lucie in accordance with it, and she had no suspicions.
dickens|Much more at rest.
austen|Much that lived in Harriets memory, many little particulars of the notice she had received from him, a look, a speech, a removal from one chair to another, a compliment implied, a preference inferred, had been unnoticed, because unsuspected, by Emma.
dickens|Never even hinted, for instance, that your patron might have views as to your marriage ultimately?
dickens|Yet, a French Tellsons could get on with these things exceedingly well, and, as long as the times held together, no man had taken fright at them, and drawn out his money.
dickens|Hear me, my dead baby and my withered father I swear on my knees, on these stones, to avenge you on Foulon!
dickens|It was not then, but when we had got to the cheese, that our conversation turned upon our rowing feats, and that Drummle was rallied for coming up behind of a night in that slow amphibious way of his.
austen|I am sorry for her.
dickens|Another blank.
austen|The entertainment of dining at Rosings was repeated about twice a week; and, allowing for the loss of Sir William, and there being only one cardtable in the evening, every such entertainment was the counterpart of the first.
dickens|I felt my face fire up as I looked at Joe.
austen|She expected every moment that some of the gentlemen would enter the room.
austen|She had only to say in reply, that they had wandered about, till she was beyond her own knowledge.
austen|If it were not allowable for him to gain my affections because I had no money, what occasion could there be for making love to a girl whom he did not care about, and who was equally poor?
dickens|And its really very hard,  said Miss Pross.
dickens|said the Doctor, with evident constraint.
austen|Good heavens!
austen|I am Lady Patroness, you know.
austen|They will never be distressed for money.
dickens|Dead darkness lay on all the landscape, dead darkness added its own hush to the hushing dust on all the roads.
austen|Alas!
austen|She had been often remiss, her conscience told her so; remiss, perhaps, more in thought than fact; scornful, ungracious.
dickens|This was understood to terminate the Course for the evening, and we emerged into the air with shrieks of intellectual victory.
dickens|How did Mr Jaggers tame her, Wemmick?
austen|Your Yorkshire friendyour correspondent in Yorkshire;that would be the way, I suppose, if I were very bad.
dickens|I would rather you told, Joe.
dickens|What was to follow that I did not touch upon; neither, indeed, was I at all clear or comfortable about it in my own mind, now that I saw him in that softer condition, and in declared peril for my sake.
austen|I had not the least idea!
austen|I do not know anybody who seems more to enjoy the power of doing what he likes than Mr Darcy.
dickens|With a last faint effort, which would have been powerless but for my yielding to it and assisting it, he raised my hand to his lips.
dickens|As he held her to his heart and turned her beautiful head between his face and the brawling crowd, so that his tears and her lips might come together unseen, a few of the people fell to dancing.
dickens|Terrible?
austen|The children are all fond of him.
dickens|I, for my part, was thoughtful too; for, how best to check this growing change in Joe was a great perplexity to my remorseful thoughts.
austen|Our habits of expense make us too dependent, and there are not many in my rank of life who can afford to marry without some attention to money.
dickens|Why, then, said Mr Lorry, grasping his eager but so firm and steady hand, it does not all depend on one old man, but I shall have a young and ardent man at my side.
austen|The misfortune of your birth ought to make you particularly careful as to your associates.
austen|She wished him very well; but he gave her pain, and his welfare twenty miles off would administer most satisfaction.
austen|Those who do not complain are never pitied.
austen|It might be weeks, it might be only a few days, before the horse were useable; but no preparations could be ventured on, and it was all melancholy stagnation.
austen|My dear aunt, this is being serious indeed.
austen|While he talked to Isabella, however, Emma found an opportunity of saying,  And so you do not consider this visit from your son as by any means certain.
dickens|I sat down in the cliental chair placed over against Mr Jaggerss chair, and became fascinated by the dismal atmosphere of the place.
austen|To find a man agreeable whom one is determined to hate!
austen|Yes, I understand the sort of mind.
dickens|For, it inscrutably appeared to stand to reason, in the minds of the whole company, that I was an excrescence on the entertainment.
austen|The Randalls party agreed to it immediately; and after a pretty long speech from Miss Bates, which few persons listened to, she also found it possible to accept dear Miss Woodhouses most obliging invitation.
dickens|He now stepped up to where Mr Lorry and Mr Darnay stood upon the pavement.
austen|at Randalls?
dickens|Impossible!
dickens|Thats it.
austen|No, no, you must not; you shall not, indeed.
dickens|Well!
dickens|Listen, then!
austen|Jane was already so much recovered as to intend leaving her room for a couple of hours that evening.
austen|They had now entered a beautiful walk by the side of the water, and every step was bringing forward a nobler fall of ground, or a finer reach of the woods to which they were approaching; but it was some time before Elizabeth was sensible of any of it; and, though she answered mechanically to the repeated appeals of her uncle and aunt, and seemed to direct her eyes to such objects as they pointed out, she distinguished no part of the scene.
dickens|Take up the pen and finish.
dickens|In the submissive way of one long accustomed to obey under coercion, he ate and drank what they gave him to eat and drink, and put on the cloak and other wrappings, that they gave him to wear.
dickens|Theres the worst arm comfortably in the sling once more, and now there remains but the right hand, which is a far easier job.
dickens|Where was this coach, in the name of gracious?
austen|I shall soon have done.
austen|To Mrs Gardiner, Wickham had one means of affording pleasure, unconnected with his general powers.
dickens|She stopped in the act of putting the note in her bosom, and, with her hands yet at her neck, looked terrified at Madame Defarge.
austen|You ought all to have learned.
dickens|Well?
dickens|The pleasure of conversing with you, Monsieur Defarge, recalls to me,  pursued the spy, that I have the honour of cherishing some interesting associations with your name.
dickens|Not partickler, Pip.
dickens|My poor dear Handel, he replied, holding his head, I am too stunned to think.
austen|He was considering her as the source of all the happiness they offered.
dickens|and all the gravestones in the churchyardit was a large churchyard that they were inlooking on like ghosts in white, while the church tower itself looked on like the ghost of a monstrous giant.
austen|Mr Darcy seemed much pleased with the attention.
austen|And putting up her hand to screen her words from EmmaA congratulatory visit, you know.
austen|Happy shall I be, when his stay at Netherfield is over!
dickens|I also communicated to him another caution.
dickens|As I did not like him either, I took the liberty of saying that we thanked him, but we didnt want seeing home.
austen|He had never before supposed that, could Wickham be prevailed on to marry his daughter, it would be done with so little inconvenience to himself as by the present arrangement.
dickens|There was nothing against him, save the quarrel; and my sister had quarrelled with him, and with everybody else about her, ten thousand times.
dickens|I give you that advice.
dickens|Where do you think I am going to?
dickens|Youd be everybodys master, if you durst, retorted Orlick, with an illfavored grin.
dickens|I stand aside, messieurs, by my heap of stones, to see the soldiers and their prisoner pass for it is a solitary road, that, where any spectacle is well worth looking at, and at first, as they approach, I see no more than that they are six soldiers with a tall man bound, and that they are almost black to my sightexcept on the side of the sun going to bed, where they have a red edge, messieurs.
dickens|From whom?
austen|Excuse me, for I must speak plainly.
dickens|A man cant starve; at least I cant.
dickens|the guard retorted.
dickens|Who could sit upon anything in Fleetstreet during the busy hours of the day, and not be dazed and deafened by two immense processions, one ever tending westward with the sun, the other ever tending eastward from the sun, both ever tending to the plains beyond the range of red and purple where the sun goes down!
austen|I would give any money for it.
dickens|You know I have been drinking.
dickens|An hour, if you please.
dickens|It was told me by the Bank that the gentleman would explain to me the details of the business, and that I must prepare myself to find them of a surprising nature.
austen|At this moment Frank began talking so vigorously, that Emma could not but imagine he had overheard his own praises, and did not want to hear more;and the voices of the ladies were drowned for a while, till another suspension brought Mrs Eltons tones again distinctly forward.
dickens|I stopped then, to wave my hat, and dear old Joe waved his strong right arm above his head, crying huskily Hooroar!
austen|I hope he may long continue to feel all the value of such a reconciliation.
dickens|There being to my knowledge a respectable lodginghouse in Essex Street, the back of which looked into the Temple, and was almost within hail of my windows, I first of all repaired to that house, and was so fortunate as to secure the second floor for my uncle, Mr Provis.
austen|Hate you!
dickens|It had been his own idea to wear that touch of powder, and I had conceded the powder after overcoming the shorts.
austen|It is impossible.
dickens|No doubt he would be, if he could, returned the landlord, but he cant.
dickens|Clarriker informing me on that occasion that the affairs of the House were steadily progressing, that he would now be able to establish a small branchhouse in the East which was much wanted for the extension of the business, and that Herbert in his new partnership capacity would go out and take charge of it, I found that I must have prepared for a separation from my friend, even though my own affairs had been more settled.
dickens|Its pity, said I, scornfully, as I finished my interrupted breakfast, that the man did not say what he had done and would do again.
austen|I quite forgot!
dickens|And these here would be mine, if it wos so, entreatin of you fur to bear in mind that wot I said just now, I up and said in the good cause when I might have kep it back.
austen|When we talked about him, it was as clear as possible.
dickens|So subdued I was by those tears, and by their breaking out again in the course of the quiet walk, that when I was on the coach, and it was clear of the town, I deliberated with an aching heart whether I would not get down when we changed horses and walk back, and have another evening at home, and a better parting.
austen|Harriet was on the point of leaving the room, and only stopt to say, with a very interesting naivete,  Oh!
dickens|Have the goodness, Biddy, to tell me why.
dickens|There had been earlier drinking than usual in the wineshop of Monsieur Defarge.
dickens|Hide Charles.
austen|I do not believe any such thing, replied Emma.
austen|Mrs Perry was very anxious that he should have a carriage, and came to my mother in great spirits one morning because she thought she had prevailed.
austen|He seemed to have all the life and spirit, cheerful feelings, and social inclinations of his father, and nothing of the pride or reserve of Enscombe.
austen|The whole party were but just reassembled in the drawingroom when Mr Weston made his appearance among them.
dickens|We went to Gerrard Street, all three together, in a hackneycoach And, as soon as we got there, dinner was served.
austen|Miss Woodhouse, I would rather done any thing than have it happen and yet, you know, there was a sort of satisfaction in seeing him behave so pleasantly and so kindly.
dickens|In the morning, with my tools upon my shoulder, eating my morsel of black bread as I go, I make a circuit by the prison, on my way to my work.
austen|Emma had not been thinking of him, she had forgotten to think of himbut she was very glad to see him.
austen|to be a second time the dupe of her misconceptions and flattery.
dickens|You dogs!
austen|It is not that I am without the wish; but you know how impossible my father would deem it that James should putto for such a purpose.
austen|If I were to go through the world, I could not meet with a better.
dickens|I had no claim, and I finally resolved, and ever afterwards abided by the resolution, that my heart should never be sickened with the hopeless task of attempting to establish one.
dickens|But I think their withdrawing is in your favour.
austen|Instead of drawing his brother off to a window while they waited for dinner, he was talking to Miss Fairfax.
austen|But she would not allow herself to stay with her sister, or say half that remained to be said for the present.
dickens|Yes.
dickens|Others, men and women, dipped in the puddles with little mugs of mutilated earthenware, or even with handkerchiefs from womens heads, which were squeezed dry into infants mouths; others made small mudembankments, to stem the wine as it ran; others, directed by lookerson up at high windows, darted here and there, to cut off little streams of wine that started away in new directions; others devoted themselves to the sodden and leedyed pieces of the cask, licking, and even champing the moister winerotted fragments with eager relish.
austen|It then occurred to her to employ him in reading.
dickens|She spared me the trouble of considering, by dismissing me.
dickens|As we neared home, Joe vaguely acknowledging the occasion as an impressive and ceremonious one, went on ahead to open the front door.
dickens|Entreating Herbert to tell me how he had come to my rescue,which at first he had flatly refused to do, but had insisted on my remaining quiet,I learnt that I had in my hurry dropped the letter, open, in our chambers, where he, coming home to bring with him Startop whom he had met in the street on his way to me, found it, very soon after I was gone.
dickens|But, unfortunately, there has been, he paused and took a deep breatha slight relapse.
dickens|These occupations brought her round to the December month, wherein her father walked among the terrors with a steady head.
dickens|Mr Trabb had sliced his hot roll into three featherbeds, and was slipping butter in between the blankets, and covering it up.
austen|Her ladyship received them civilly, but it was plain that their company was by no means so acceptable as when she could get nobody else; and she was, in fact, almost engrossed by her nephews, speaking to them, especially to Darcy, much more than to any other person in the room.
dickens|said Mr Lorry.
dickens|Now, I tell you where it is!
austen|With Mr Westons ball in view at least, there had been a great deal of insensibility to other things; but it was now too evident that she had not attained such a state of composure as could stand against the actual approachnew carriage, bellringing, and all.
dickens|We may know what it is.
austen|To restrain him as much as might be, by her own manners, she was immediately preparing to speak with exquisite calmness and gravity of the weather and the night; but scarcely had she begun, scarcely had they passed the sweepgate and joined the other carriage, than she found her subject cut upher hand seizedher attention demanded, and Mr Elton actually making violent love to her availing himself of the precious opportunity, declaring sentiments which must be already well known, hopingfearingadoringready to die if she refused him; but flattering himself that his ardent attachment and unequalled love and unexampled passion could not fail of having some effect, and in short, very much resolved on being seriously accepted as soon as possible.
dickens|She put her left arm across the head of her stick, and softly laid her forehead on it.
austen|Why should you caution me?
dickens|Otherwise, the governor would not be marched to the Hotel de Ville for judgment.
austen|I know how much you dislike him.
austen|Emma could not have a better companion than Harriet.
dickens|The Records!
austen|The weather affected Mr Woodhouse, and he could only be kept tolerably comfortable by almost ceaseless attention on his daughters side, and by exertions which had never cost her half so much before.
dickens|His boast that he had made me a gentleman, and that he had come to see me support the character on his ample resources, was made for me quite as much as for himself.
austen|Emmas colour was heightened by this unjust praise; and with a smile, and shake of the head, which spoke much, she looked at Mr Knightley.
austen|Only let me assure you, my dear Miss Elizabeth, that I can from my heart most cordially wish you equal felicity in marriage.
austen|He could not say that he was sorry on his own account; his very cheerful look would have contradicted him if he had; but he said, and very steadily, that he was sorry for the disappointment of the others, and with considerable kindness added,  You, Emma, who have so few opportunities of dancing, you are really out of luck; you are very much out of luck!
austen|You have made yourself too clear.
dickens|What became of the two men?
austen|No, my dear, I never encouraged any body to marry, but I would always wish to pay every proper attention to a ladyand a bride, especially, is never to be neglected.
dickens|Do try him, if it is only for old acquaintance sake.
dickens|Never had I breathed, and never would I breatheor so I resolveda word of Estella to Provis.
dickens|Is it possible!
austen|Poor Lydias situation must, at best, be bad enough; but that it was no worse, she had need to be thankful.
austen|Mr Bennet protested against any description of finery.
dickens|You can say what it is.
dickens|By that time, there was only one adventurous traveller left be congratulated for the two others had been set down at their respective roadside destinations.
austen|Wellif you please, said Mrs Weston rather hesitating, if you think she will be of any use.
dickens|You dont mean to say its  Yes I do; its lies, Joe.
dickens|A sort of a pastrycook.
austen|Emma saw how Mr Weston understood these joyous prospects.
dickens|Towards Soho, therefore, Mr Stryver shouldered his way from the Temple, while the bloom of the Long Vacations infancy was still upon it.
dickens|Be comforted, and forgive me.
dickens|Nobody doubted it; but Compeyson, who had meant to depose to it, was tumbling on the tides, dead, and it happened that there was not at that time any prison officer in London who could give the required evidence.
dickens|Yes, he replied; I wish to come in, master.
dickens|I had become aware of an alarming growling overhead, and had probably expressed the fact in my countenance.
austen|I mean in persontall, and with that sort of lookand not very talkative.
dickens|His judges sat upon the Bench in feathered hats; but the rough red cap and tricoloured cockade was the headdress otherwise prevailing.
dickens|was the cry most taken up by the sea that rushed in, as if there were an eternity of people, as well as of time and space.
dickens|I do, said Miss Pross.
dickens|Did he say anything about America, Miss Manette?
dickens|Mr Drummle, said Mrs Pocket, will you ring for Flopson?
dickens|Come on at a footpace!
austen|That is a grand pianoforte, and he might think it too large for Mrs Batess house.
dickens|How do you manage, Biddy, said I, to learn everything that I learn, and always to keep up with me?
dickens|I have had the happiness, Doctor Manette, of being so intimate here,  so he at length began, for some year and a half, that I hope the topic on which I am about to touch may not  He was stayed by the Doctors putting out his hand to stop him.
austen|If not wise or refined herself, she would have connected him with those who were; but Miss Hawkins, it might be fairly supposed from her easy conceit, had been the best of her own set.
dickens|Her husbands step was strong and prosperous among them; her fathers firm and equal.
dickens|It was like a fine mask, suddenly startled, made angry, and petrified.
dickens|I shall buy up some good Life Assurance shares, and cut into the Direction.
austen|Many of my acquaintances are already there for the winter; I wish that I could hear that you, my dearest friend, had any intention of making one of the crowdbut of that I despair.
austen|You shall have it in a few words.
dickens|I dont feel disposed to say much.
austen|They were going to remove immediately to Richmond.
dickens|I was weak and faint when you brought me in, and I am fainter now you take me out.
dickens|When it was given him, he drank his Majestys health and compliments of the season, and took it all at a mouthful and smacked his lips.
dickens|This is the witness encountered by appointment, by me, Jacques Four.
austen|I speak feelingly.
dickens|Nothing, Carton.
dickens|The last I heard of him, I stopped in the mist to listen, and the file was still going.
dickens|My faith!
dickens|When they passed a prison of the State, they kept far from its frowning walls, and looked up at its bars, and spoke in whispers.
dickens|Stepping in for a moment at the open gate, and looking around me with the uncomfortable air of a stranger who had no business there, I saw the auctioneers clerk walking on the casks and telling them off for the information of a cataloguecompiler, pen in hand, who made a temporary desk of the wheeled chair I had so often pushed along to the tune of Old Clem.
austen|Mrs Churchill rules at Enscombe, and is a very oddtempered woman; and his coming now, depends upon her being willing to spare him.
dickens|He had already locked up his safe, and made preparations for going home.
dickens|And more needles were missing than it could be regarded as quite wholesome for a patient of such tender years either to apply externally or to take as a tonic.
dickens|Around his neck was slung a tin bottle, as I had often seen his meat and drink slung about him in other days.
dickens|I show him, in the way you have seen, to a chosen few.
austen|The invitation was everywhere so well received, that it seemed as if, like Mrs Elton, they were all taking the scheme as a particular compliment to themselves.
dickens|Whats it about?
austen|He was so busy the last time he was at Kingston that he quite forgot it, but he goes again tomorrow.
dickens|He was not of this part of the country.
dickens|When he awoke and was afoot again, he lingered there yet a little longer, watching an eddy that turned and turned purposeless, until the stream absorbed it, and carried it on to the sea.
dickens|Against two of the pillars were fastened two great flaring flambeaux, and in the light of these, standing out in the open air, was a large grindstone a roughly mounted thing which appeared to have hurriedly been brought there from some neighbouring smithy, or other workshop.
dickens|I had been looking round,in fact, for Estella,and I stammered that I hoped she was well.
austen|Mrs Reynolds anticipated Miss Darcys delight, when she should enter the room.
dickens|Of course.
austen|But I believe your opinion of him would in general astonishand perhaps you would not express it quite so strongly anywhere else.
dickens|Listen to him!
austen|Why she did not like Jane Fairfax might be a difficult question to answer; Mr Knightley had once told her it was because she saw in her the really accomplished young woman, which she wanted to be thought herself; and though the accusation had been eagerly refuted at the time, there were moments of selfexamination in which her conscience could not quite acquit her.
austen|She did not fear her fathers opposition, but he was going to be made unhappy; and that it should be through her meansthat she, his favourite child, should be distressing him by her choice, should be filling him with fears and regrets in disposing of herwas a wretched reflection, and she sat in misery till Mr Darcy appeared again, when, looking at him, she was a little relieved by his smile.
dickens|And I am glad of another thing, and that is, that of course you know you may depend upon my keeping it and always so far deserving it.
austen|But on the third morning after his arrival in Hertfordshire, she saw him, from her dressingroom window, enter the paddock and ride towards the house.
dickens|Jane, indeed!
austen|It certainly is a most iniquitous affair, said Mr Bennet, and nothing can clear Mr Collins from the guilt of inheriting Longbourn.
austen|But it is proved by the smallness of the school, which I have heard you speak of, as under the patronage of your sister and Mrs Bragge; the only school, and not more than fiveandtwenty children.
austen|She has not the least idea.
austen|She plays charmingly.
dickens|Not only was he not there, but his box was gone.
austen|I should be mortified indeed if I did not believe I had been of some use; but it is not every body who will bestow praise where they may.
dickens|But I said he had looked very nice.
austen|Lydias voice was heard in the vestibule; the door was thrown open, and she ran into the room.
austen|They were stopping, however, in the first place at Mrs Batess; whose house was a little nearer Randalls than Fords; and had all but knocked, when Emma caught their eye.
austen|The conduct of neither, if strictly examined, will be irreproachable; but since then, we have both, I hope, improved in civility.
dickens|Certainly you know it.
dickens|Then, all the children laughed, and Mr Pocket who in the meantime had twice endeavored to lift himself up by the hair laughed, and we all laughed and were glad.
dickens|Of course I felt my good faith involved in the observance of his request.
austen|He saw his son every year in London, and was proud of him; and his fond report of him as a very fine young man had made Highbury feel a sort of pride in him too.
dickens|Take off his head!
dickens|Behave yourself.
austen|Pray write instantly, and let me understand itunless it is, for very cogent reasons, to remain in the secrecy which Lydia seems to think necessary; and then I must endeavour to be satisfied with ignorance.
dickens|If all goes well, said I, you will be perfectly free and safe again within a few hours.
dickens|Whatever might befall now, he must on to his journeys end.
dickens|There was something charmingly cordial and engaging in the manner in which after saying Now, Handel, as if it were the grave beginning of a portentous business exordium, he had suddenly given up that tone, stretched out his honest hand, and spoken like a schoolboy.
austen|His surprise was great.
dickens|He said with a tearful smile that it was a singular thing to think of now, and I said so too.
dickens|He marriedan English ladyand I was one of the trustees.
dickens|Its owner went downstairs into the courtyard, got into his carriage, and drove away.
austen|And there was my aunt, all the time I was dressing, preaching and talking away just as if she was reading a sermon.
austen|This is the luxury of a large party, said sheone can get near every body, and say every thing.
austen|His revenge would have been complete indeed.
austen|I have engaged Mrs Weston to correspond with me.
austen|My good qualities are under your protection, and you are to exaggerate them as much as possible; and, in return, it belongs to me to find occasions for teasing and quarrelling with you as often as may be; and I shall begin directly by asking you what made you so unwilling to come to the point at last.
austen|Nothing occurred between them that could justify the hopes of his sister.
dickens|I had alighted from Joes back on the brink of the ditch when we came up, and had not moved since.
dickens|Farewell, dear darling of my soul.
dickens|Lying hidden at her waist, was a sharpened dagger.
dickens|What have I done!
dickens|He swallowed, or rather snapped up, every mouthful, too soon and too fast; and he looked sideways here and there while he ate, as if he thought there was danger in every direction of somebodys coming to take the pie away.
dickens|For, going to the door of the Doctors room and looking in, he perceived that the shoemakers bench and tools were put aside again, and that the Doctor himself sat reading at the window.
dickens|A fearful man, all in coarse gray, with a great iron on his leg.
dickens|Like the fabled rustic who raised the Devil with infinite pains, and was so terrified at the sight of him that he could ask the Enemy no question, but immediately fled; so, Monseigneur, after boldly reading the Lords Prayer backwards for a great number of years, and performing many other potent spells for compelling the Evil One, no sooner beheld him in his terrors than he took to his noble heels.
austen|A thousand vexatious thoughts would recur.
dickens|I cant quite understand.
austen|I must not quarrel with a spirit of forbearance which has been so richly extended towards myself; but, otherwise, I should loudly protest against the share of it which that woman has known.
dickens|Exactly what he had been in my eyes then, he was in my eyes still; just as simply faithful, and as simply right.
austen|The liberty of communication cannot be mine till it has lost all its value!
austen|It would hold the very number for comfort.
austen|She will probably have soon done, and then we shall go home.
austen|Oh!
dickens|You was saying, said the strange man, turning to Joe, that you was a blacksmith.
dickens|He had expected labour, and he found it, and did it and made the best of it.
austen|Very, very much.
austen|my dear, cried his wife, I cannot bear to hear that mentioned.
austen|How could I dare  But he laughed so heartily at the recollection, that Emma could not help saying,  I do suspect that in the midst of your perplexities at that time, you had very great amusement in tricking us all.
dickens|He turned towards him in his chair, but did not look at him, or raise his eyes.
austen|intending to trace their route.
dickens|I put such questions to Mr Wopsle as, When did the man come in?
austen|Elizabeth was distressed.
dickens|I dropped into the office to ask if Mr Jaggers had come in yet, and I found he had not, and I strolled out again.
dickens|It was Christmas Eve, and I had to stir the pudding for next day, with a copperstick, from seven to eight by the Dutch clock.
austen|Miss Bennets astonishment was soon lessened by the strong sisterly partiality which made any admiration of Elizabeth appear perfectly natural; and all surprise was shortly lost in other feelings.
dickens|On a certain Friday night in November one thousand seven hundred and seventyfive, did business occasion you to travel between London and Dover by the mail?
dickens|As to the nature of the case, our confidence in your skill assures us that you will ascertain it for yourself better than we can describe it.
dickens|Sometimes, she would coldly tolerate me; sometimes, she would condescend to me; sometimes, she would be quite familiar with me; sometimes, she would tell me energetically that she hated me.
austen|Breakfast was scarcely over when a servant from Netherfield brought the following note for Elizabeth  MY DEAREST LIZZY,  I find myself very unwell this morning, which, I suppose, is to be imputed to my getting wet through yesterday.
dickens|I cannot conceive why everybody of his standing who visited at our house should always have put me through the same inflammatory process under similar circumstances.
austen|I do not deserve it.
dickens|All the while knowing the madness of my heart to be so very mad and misplaced, that I was quite conscious it would have served my face right, if I had lifted it up by my hair, and knocked it against the pebbles as a punishment for belonging to such an idiot.
dickens|Yes, madame, yes.
dickens|cried Mr Pumblechook, leaning back in his chair, quite flaccid with admiration, thats the way you know em, sir!
dickens|Theres not a fork or a spoon in the collection, said Miss Pross, that I didnt cry over, last night after the box came, till I couldnt see it.
austen|And you have never any odd humours, my dear.
dickens|And it are understood.
austen|James could take the note.
dickens|His constraint was so manifest, and it was so manifest, too, that it originated in an unwillingness to approach the subject, that Charles Darnay hesitated.
dickens|You and I and Joe would have wanted nothing then, and Joe and I would perhaps have gone partners when I was out of my time, and I might even have grown up to keep company with you, and we might have sat on this very bank on a fine Sunday, quite different people.
dickens|Mr Pumblechook winked assent; from which I at once inferred that he had never seen Miss Havisham, for she was nothing of the kind.
dickens|His eyes were set very deep in his head, and were disagreeably sharp and suspicious.
dickens|The Doctor grasped his hand, and murmured, That was very kind.
dickens|She was not physically strong, and after a little time said, Slower!
austen|To think of your sending us all your store apples.
dickens|and resolved to make a full disclosure if I should see any such new occasion as a new chance of helping in the discovery of the assailant.
dickens|Behold the manner of it.
dickens|Mr Waldengarver, said the man, would be glad to have the honor.
austen|Write to me very often, my dear.
dickens|Mysterious backs and ends of houses peeped at them as they talked, and the planetree whispered to them in its own way above their heads.
dickens|This citizen, pointing out the second who had entered, is from Saint Antoine.
dickens|Here he is, said the Doctor, entering the dark room at the moment.
austen|I cannot be so easily reconciled to myself.
dickens|He was brushed and washed at the usual hour, and set off with his son to pursue his ostensible calling.
dickens|Either Saint Antoine had an instinctive sense that the objectionable decoration was gone, or Saint Antoine was on the watch for its disappearance; howbeit, the Saint took courage to lounge in, very shortly afterwards, and the wineshop recovered its habitual aspect.
dickens|I have been to Soho.
dickens|Then, issuing from the obscure corner from which he had never moved, Sydney Carton came and took her up.
austen|You judge very properly, said Mr Bennet, and it is happy for you that you possess the talent of flattering with delicacy.
dickens|There was no house now, no brewery, no building whatever left, but the wall of the old garden.
austen|She spoke as she felt, with earnest regret and solicitudesincerely wishing that the circumstances which she collected from Miss Bates to be now actually determined on, might be as much for Miss Fairfaxs advantage and comfort as possible.
dickens|You may as well go again me one way as another.
dickens|Whatever her tone with me happened to be, I could put no trust in it, and build no hope on it; and yet I went on against trust and against hope.
dickens|And even when he had done all that, and had gone all round the jacktowel, he took out his penknife and scraped the case out of his nails before he put his coat on.
dickens|Let him suppose it a mere freak, but a secret one, until the morning comes then let him know that there is urgent reason for your getting Provis aboard and away.
austen|why not say upon your honour, that it has nothing to do with any of them?
dickens|She was even more dreadfully fond of Estella than she had been when I last saw them together; I repeat the word advisedly, for there was something positively dreadful in the energy of her looks and embraces.
austen|Makingup indeed would not do.
austen|I am cruelly used, nobody feels for my poor nerves.
dickens|Early in the evening he embraced her, and her scarcely less dear namesake, pretending that he would return byandbye an imaginary engagement took him out, and he had secreted a valise of clothes ready, and so he emerged into the heavy mist of the heavy streets, with a heavier heart.
dickens|You see, monsieur, I am going to use them, I replied, and said no more.
dickens|When I said that I only came to see how Miss Havisham was, Sarah evidently deliberated whether or no she should send me about my business.
dickens|You little thought, said Mr Pumblechook, apostrophizing the fowl in the dish, when you was a young fledgling, what was in store for you.
dickens|I defy him to do it.
dickens|Your husband is not my business here, returned Madame Defarge, looking down at her with perfect composure.
austen|About half a mile beyond Highbury, making a sudden turn, and deeply shaded by elms on each side, it became for a considerable stretch very retired; and when the young ladies had advanced some way into it, they had suddenly perceived at a small distance before them, on a broader patch of greensward by the side, a party of gipsies.
austen|To know that she thought his coming certain was enough to make Emma consider it so, and sincerely did she rejoice in their joy.
austen|The present always occupies you in such scenesdoes it?
dickens|Miss Lucie looks ill, Mr Darnay has had a terrible day, we are worn out.
austen|calls me the child of good fortune.
dickens|It was again a summer day when, lately arrived in London from his college occupation, he turned into the quiet corner in Soho, bent on seeking an opportunity of opening his mind to Doctor Manette.
austen|What an escape!
austen|However, she will not find her grandmama at all deafer than she was two years ago; which is saying a great deal at my mothers time of lifeand it really is full two years, you know, since she was here.
dickens|said Mr Jaggers, waving his hand at them to put them behind him.
dickens|Under cover of the darkness he followed out of the room, followed down the stairs, followed down the court, followed out into the streets.
dickens|Have you ever seen a messenger you once sent to me, I inquired, since he undertook that trust?
dickens|I dont wish to make a display of my feelings, but I have habitually thought of you more in the night than I am quite equal to.
dickens|Faint and sick with the pain of my injured arm, bewildered by the surprise, and yet conscious how easily this threat could be put in execution, I desisted, and tried to ease my arm were it ever so little.
dickens|The shining Bulls Eye of the Court was gone, or it would have been the mark for a hurricane of national bullets.
austen|Mr Knightley looked as if he were more gratified than he cared to express; and before he could make any reply, Mr Woodhouse, whose thoughts were on the Batess, said  It is a great pity that their circumstances should be so confined!
austen|She met Mr Weston on his entrance, with a smiling countenance, exclaiming,  A very pretty trick you have been playing me, upon my word!
dickens|He attached no definite meaning to the word that I am aware of, but used it, like his own pretended Christian name, to affront mankind, and convey an idea of something savagely damaging.
dickens|But her hands were Estellas hands, and her eyes were Estellas eyes, and if she had reappeared a hundred times I could have been neither more sure nor less sure that my conviction was the truth.
dickens|The shadow attendant on Madame Defarge and her party seemed to fall so threatening and dark on the child, that her mother instinctively kneeled on the ground beside her, and held her to her breast.
austen|And then fly off, through half a sentence, to her mothers old petticoat.
dickens|Easy, Herbert.
dickens|I hope, sir, pleaded the abashed Mr Cruncher, that a gentleman like yourself wot Ive had the honour of odd jobbing till Im grey at it, would think twice about harming of me, even if it wos soI dont say it is, but even if it wos.
austen|Yes, said his brother quickly, it is Randalls that does it all.
austen|Such a circumstance could only exasperate farther, and, when he ceased, the colour rose into her cheeks, and she said  In such cases as this, it is, I believe, the established mode to express a sense of obligation for the sentiments avowed, however unequally they may be returned.
dickens|The old man kissed her, and hurried her into his room, and turned the key; then, came hurrying back to the Doctor, and opened the window and partly opened the blind, and put his hand upon the Doctors arm, and looked out with him into the courtyard.
austen|After sitting a few minutes, they were all sent to one of the windows to admire the view, Mr Collins attending them to point out its beauties, and Lady Catherine kindly informing them that it was much better worth looking at in the summer.
dickens|said Mrs Pocket, whose dignity was roused again.
austen|How it might be considered by the rest of the party, she could not tell.
dickens|Your manners have been of that silent and sullen and hangdog kind, that, upon my life and soul, I have been ashamed of you, Sydney!
dickens|Gradually, it subsided to a foot pace, swinging and lumbering upward among the many sweet scents of a summer night.
austen|Though always objecting to every marriage that was arranged, he never suffered beforehand from the apprehension of any; it seemed as if he could not think so ill of any two persons understanding as to suppose they meant to marry till it were proved against them.
austen|Poor old Mrs Bates, civil and humble as usual, looked as if she did not quite understand what was going on.
dickens|He studied much, slept little, sustained a great deal of fatigue with ease, and was equably cheerful.
austen|We accordingly wentand there I readily engaged in the office of pointing out to my friend the certain evils of such a choice.
austen|He has too much real feeling to address any woman on the haphazard of selfish passion.
austen|When I am in the country, he replied, I never wish to leave it; and when I am in town it is pretty much the same.
austen|You must send John with the young ladies, Mrs Collins.
austen|However, she seems a very obliging, prettybehaved young lady, and no doubt will make him a very good wife.
dickens|I apprehend that man, and call upon him to surrender, and you to assist.
austen|We seemed to understand each other.
austen|His cousin was as absurd as he had hoped, and he listened to him with the keenest enjoyment, maintaining at the same time the most resolute composure of countenance, and, except in an occasional glance at Elizabeth, requiring no partner in his pleasure.
dickens|There was nothing in this action to attract my particular attention, for I had seen common people struck more commonly than dogs.
dickens|When I had shown this to Herbert and had put it in the firebut not before we had both got it by heartwe considered what to do.
dickens|At length, one evening when dinner was over and I had dropped into a slumber quite worn out,for my nights had been agitated and my rest broken by fearful dreams,I was roused by the welcome footstep on the staircase.
austen|Have you anything else to propose for my domestic felicity?
austen|In a short time I shall have a daughter married.
dickens|A diamond all set round with rubies; thats a gentlemans, I hope!
dickens|At last, after several hours, when sundry summerhouses had been pulled down, and some arearailings had been torn up, to arm the more belligerent spirits, a rumour got about that the Guards were coming.
austen|I should like it of all things, was not plainer in words than manner.
dickens|You may read the Lords Prayer backwards, if you like,and, perhaps, have done it before today.
dickens|Soon afterwards, the bell at the great gate sounded, and he thought, They have come back!
dickens|I shall soon be out of the way of harming you, and the rest will soon be far from here, please God!
austen|She has been gone longer already than she intended.
dickens|No, dont wipe it offfor Gods sake, give me your blackened hand!
dickens|Wemmicks attention being thus directed to his brooch, he put down the cast, and polished the brooch with his pockethandkerchief.
austen|Were you, yourself, ever to marry, she is the very woman for you.
dickens|How many times?
austen|Oh, Mrs Churchill; every body knows Mrs Churchill, replied Isabella and I am sure I never think of that poor young man without the greatest compassion.
dickens|He came faithfully, and he brought me the two onepound notes.
austen|I am glad you approve of what I have done, said he very comfortably.
austen|She had already satisfied herself that he thought Harriet a beautiful girl, which she trusted, with such frequent meetings at Hartfield, was foundation enough on his side; and on Harriets there could be little doubt that the idea of being preferred by him would have all the usual weight and efficacy.
dickens|It was protected from the weather by an ingenious little tarpaulin contrivance in the nature of an umbrella.
dickens|It is so, Jacques, Monsieur Defarge returned.
dickens|He had already glanced at his hands more than once.
dickens|What can you do?
dickens|said I.
dickens|When I woke up in the night,like Camilla,I used to think, with a weariness on my spirits, that I should have been happier and better if I had never seen Miss Havishams face, and had risen to manhood content to be partners with Joe in the honest old forge.
austen|I hope, said she, as they were walking together in the shrubbery the next day, you will give your motherinlaw a few hints, when this desirable event takes place, as to the advantage of holding her tongue; and if you can compass it, do cure the younger girls of running after officers.
dickens|When the ruin is complete, said she, with a ghastly look, and when they lay me dead, in my brides dress on the brides table,which shall be done, and which will be the finished curse upon him,so much the better if it is done on this day!
dickens|Yes, Jerry.
austen|gave them to understand that they were going to Gretna Green, something was dropped by Denny expressing his belief that W.
austen|Well, Jane, make haste and tell us; make haste, my love.
dickens|Can it be true, said Defarge, in a low voice, looking down at his wife as he stood smoking with his hand on the back of her chair what he has said of Maamselle Manette?
austen|Its effect upon her appears in the immediate resolution it produced as soon as she found I was really gone from Randalls, she closed with the offer of that officious Mrs Elton; the whole system of whose treatment of her, by the bye, has ever filled me with indignation and hatred.
austen|Do put up your horse at the Crown, and come in.
austen|How very differently we feel!
austen|poor woman, who would have thought it!
dickens|They come here on the day, but they dare not refer to it.
austen|That will be very bad.
dickens|She was absolutely without pity.
austen|She will be disagreeable in infancy, and correct herself as she grows older.
austen|While I can have my mornings to myself, said she, it is enoughI think it is no sacrifice to join occasionally in evening engagements.
austen|How can Mr Bingley, who seems good humour itself, and is, I really believe, truly amiable, be in friendship with such a man?
dickens|Of ladies company, said Joe.
dickens|What is it?
austen|I believe, maam, I may safely promise you never to dance with him.
dickens|Youll excuse me, but I know better than you.
dickens|Enough, that I saw my own feelings reflected in Herberts face, and not least among them, my repugnance towards the man who had done so much for me.
dickens|His breathing became more difficult and painful as the night drew on, and often he could not repress a groan.
dickens|How many times?
austen|If I could but see you as happy!
austen|Here are officers enough in Meryton to disappoint all the young ladies in the country.
austen|No hairdresser from London I think could.
austen|You would have doated on her, had you gone.
austen|Vain indeed must be all her attentions, vain and useless her affection for his sister and her praise of himself, if he were already selfdestined for another.
dickens|Carton, pressing forward, had already, with the speed of lightning, got him down into it, and stood over him, barefoot.
dickens|In my weakness and entire dependence on him, the dear fellow had fallen into the old tone, and called me by the old names, the dear old Pip, old chap, that now were music in my ears.
dickens|I can put my hand out, to do any little helpful work for her that my hand can find to do, without that.
dickens|Now, when I saw Joe open his blue eyes and roll them all round the kitchen in helpless amazement, I was overtaken by penitence; but only as regarded him,not in the least as regarded the other two.
austen|Mrs Hurst and her sister allowed it to be sobut still they admired her and liked her, and pronounced her to be a sweet girl, and one whom they would not object to know more of.
dickens|Better than he thought,except the last clause.
austen|Anxious to separate herself from them as far as she could, she soon afterwards took possession of a narrow footpath, a little raised on one side of the lane, leaving them together in the main road.
dickens|The clearance was effected at last; the Stryver arrears were handsomely fetched up; everything was got rid of until November should come with its fogs atmospheric, and fogs legal, and bring grist to the mill again.
dickens|The Doctor turned his eyes upon that man.
dickens|Ive put away money, only for you to spend.
austen|The yeomanry are precisely the order of people with whom I feel I can have nothing to do.
austen|The man must be a blockhead who wanted more.
dickens|But, in this separation, I associate you only with the good; and I will faithfully hold you to that always, for you must have done me far more good than harm, let me feel now what sharp distress I may.
dickens|I was very careful indeed as to that.
dickens|Miss Pross inquired, with placidity.
austen|No misfortune occurred, again to prevent the ball.
dickens|But the question, Doctor Manette.
austen|There was no one, therefore, who could be pointed out as likely to give any news of him.
austen|He found he could not be useful, and his feelings were too much irritated for talking.
austen|He was as generous, she doubted not, as the most generous of his sex; but while he was mortal, there must be a triumph.
austen|But here she did injustice to the fire and independence of his character, for it led him to escape out of Longbourn House the next morning with admirable slyness, and hasten to Lucas Lodge to throw himself at her feet.
austen|He could not see any objection at all to his, and Emmas, and Harriets going there some very fine morning.
dickens|With the aid of these appliances we all had something warm to drink, including the Aged, who was soon awake again.
austen|Has she any family?
dickens|Once more, the Dover mail struggled on, with the jackboots of its passengers squashing along by its side.
dickens|No; there are only two; mother and daughter.
dickens|Why repeat it a thousand times?
austen|That he was surprised by the connection was evident; he sustained it, however, with fortitude, and so far from going away, turned back with them, and entered into conversation with Mr Gardiner.
dickens|I whistled and made nothing of going.
dickens|My greatest reassurance was that he was coming to Barnards Inn, not to Hammersmith, and consequently would not fall in Bentley Drummles way.
dickens|Ever busily winding the golden thread that bound them all together, weaving the service of her happy influence through the tissue of all their lives, and making it predominate nowhere, Lucie heard in the echoes of years none but friendly and soothing sounds.
austen|Mr Darcy may hug himself.
dickens|Pull em out, there!
austen|My feelings in every respect forbid it.
austen|If gratitude and esteem are good foundations of affection, Elizabeths change of sentiment will be neither improbable nor faulty.
dickens|Say no more.
dickens|Games at cards languished, players at dominoes musingly built towers with them, drinkers drew figures on the tables with spilt drops of wine, Madame Defarge herself picked out the pattern on her sleeve with her toothpick, and saw and heard something inaudible and invisible a long way off.
austen|nothere is nothing to surprize one at all.
dickens|What I suffered from, was the incompatibility between his cold presence and my feelings towards Estella.
austen|I know my dear uncle and aunt so well, that I am not afraid of requesting it, though I have still something more to ask of the former.
austen|I shall always congratulate myself that you were not of the Box Hill party.
austen|The morning of the interesting day arrived, and Mrs Westons faithful pupil did not forget either at ten, or eleven, or twelve oclock, that she was to think of her at four.
dickens|The face of Trabbs boy!
dickens|I brought it to the table near the fire, and asked him what he would have?
dickens|I felt his hand tremble as it held mine, and he turned his face away as he lay in the bottom of the boat, and I heard that old sound in his throat,softened now, like all the rest of him.
dickens|Very little tonight, but all he knows.
austen|I can imagine, that before she had seen any body superior, she might tolerate him.
austen|cried Elizabeth.
dickens|Jerry!
dickens|And now Ill have no more drink; Ill get to bed.
dickens|assented Joe.
dickens|Hem!
dickens|Nothing the matter, returned the voice.
dickens|Joe caught up his hat again, and ran with them to the Jolly Bargemen to restore them to their owner.
austen|and pray, when am I to wish you joy?
dickens|By imperceptible degrees, as the tide ran out, we lost more and more of the nearer woods and hills, and dropped lower and lower between the muddy banks, but the tide was yet with us when we were off Gravesend.
dickens|I dont know, Mr Darnay; I told you it was a foolish fancy, but you asked for it.
austen|I have not the least idea of his being a weak young man I feel sure that he is not.
dickens|It died out, as everything but his shoemaking did die out of him, and he refolded his little packet and tried to secure it in his breast; but he still looked at her, and gloomily shook his head.
dickens|Dont call me Solomon.
austen|I am going tomorrow where I shall find a man who has not one agreeable quality, who has neither manner nor sense to recommend him.
dickens|The hour had measured like most other hours.
austen|For a moment or two nothing was said, and she was unsuspicious of having excited any particular interest, till she found her arm drawn within his, and pressed against his heart, and heard him thus saying, in a tone of great sensibility, speaking low,  Time, my dearest Emma, time will heal the wound.
austen|Not at all, sir.
austen|You are very cruel, said her sister, you will not let me smile, and are provoking me to it every moment.
dickens|On some hay on the ground, with a cushion thrown under his head, lay a handsome peasant boya boy of not more than seventeen at the most.
austen|By you, I was properly humbled.
austen|, it did not appear that she was at all Harriets superior.
dickens|I dont deny that your sister comes the Mogul over us, now and again.
dickens|repeated my sister.
austen|I must confess it is a recommendation to me.
austen|The quarter of an hour brought her punctually to the white gate again; and Miss Smith receiving her summons, was with her without delay, and unattended by any alarming young man.
dickens|He complied, and we groped our way down the dark stairs together.
austen|I wanted to know a little more, and this tells me quite enough.
austen|She knew the limitations of her own powers too well to attempt more than she could perform with credit; she wanted neither taste nor spirit in the little things which are generally acceptable, and could accompany her own voice well.
austen|With Tuesday came the agreeable prospect of seeing him again, and for a longer time than hitherto; of judging of his general manners, and by inference, of the meaning of his manners towards herself; of guessing how soon it might be necessary for her to throw coldness into her air; and of fancying what the observations of all those might be, who were now seeing them together for the first time.
austen|I had much rather go in the coach.
dickens|But how could I, a poor dazed village lad, avoid that wonderful inconsistency into which the best and wisest of men fall every day?
austen|Observe her eyes, as she is looking up at my father.
austen|said Mrs Gardiner.
dickens|For the tenderness of Joe was so beautifully proportioned to my need, that I was like a child in his hands.
dickens|Show him that shoe you are working at.
austen|You quite forget poor Mr Weston.
austen|or a shark?
austen|Whatever bears affinity to cunning is despicable.
austen|These the finest beds and finest sorts.
austen|They all walked about together, to see that every thing was as it should be; and within a few minutes were joined by the contents of another carriage, which Emma could not hear the sound of at first, without great surprize.
austen|I do not think it will, stopping to look once more at all the outward wretchedness of the place, and recall the still greater within.
austen|What he told me was merely this that he congratulated himself on having lately saved a friend from the inconveniences of a most imprudent marriage, but without mentioning names or any other particulars, and I only suspected it to be Bingley from believing him the kind of young man to get into a scrape of that sort, and from knowing them to have been together the whole of last summer.
dickens|You think so?
dickens|At last, me and Compeyson was both committed for felony,on a charge of putting stolen notes in circulation,and there was other charges behind.
austen|Why, my dear, you must know, Mrs Long says that Netherfield is taken by a young man of large fortune from the north of England; that he came down on Monday in a chaise and four to see the place, and was so much delighted with it, that he agreed with Mr Morris immediately; that he is to take possession before Michaelmas, and some of his servants are to be in the house by the end of next week.
dickens|A terrible sound arose when the reading of this document was done.
austen|I used to think she was not capable of being fond of any body, except herself but she has always been kind to him in her wayallowing for little whims and caprices, and expecting every thing to be as she likes.
austen|The pain of being obliged to practise concealment towards him, was very little inferior to the pain of having made Harriet unhappy.
dickens|Whenever he looked at us, we all expressed the greatest interest and amazement, and nodded until he resumed again.
austen|It is amazing to me, said Bingley, how young ladies can have patience to be so very accomplished as they all are.
dickens|Not many people had talked with him at the reception; he had stood in a little space apart, and Monseigneur might have been warmer in his manner.
austen|Elizabeth was pleased to find that he had not betrayed the interference of his friend; for, though Jane had the most generous and forgiving heart in the world, she knew it was a circumstance which must prejudice her against him.
dickens|Yes, maam.
dickens|I admit that I am a spy, and that it is considered a discreditable stationthough it must be filled by somebody; but this gentleman is no spy, and why should he so demean himself as to make himself one?
dickens|Write exactly as I speak.
dickens|The blessed darling comes of no family, my dear Handel, and never looked into the red book, and hasnt a notion about her grandpapa.
austen|Oh, no.
austen|said she did you ever sit for your picture?
austen|I cannot quite agree with you there.
dickens|said Wemmick.
dickens|Yah!
austen|Now, Lizzy, I think I have surprised you.
dickens|Yes, answered Madame Defarge; I have a good deal to do.
austen|They had determined that their marriage ought to be concluded while John and Isabella were still at Hartfield, to allow them the fortnights absence in a tour to the seaside, which was the plan.
dickens|Forgive my curiosity; do you, under your new philosophy, graciously intend to live?
dickens|May I make so bold, he said then, with a smile that was like a frown, and with a frown that was like a smile, as ask you how you have done well, since you and me was out on them lone shivering marshes?
dickens|Perhaps, see the great crowd of people with its rush and roar, bearing down upon them, too.
austen|I perfectly remember it.
austen|At threeandtwenty to have drawn such a prize!
dickens|You air in correspondence with Mr Pip?
dickens|But for your face I should think you were a little despondent, said I.
austen|I have heard him express himself so warmly on those points!
austen|There is health, not merely in her bloom, but in her air, her head, her glance.
dickens|You might treble that, and say a hundred and fifty, yet not be far from the truth.
dickens|No vivacious Bacchanalian flame leaped out of the pressed grape of Monsieur Defarge but, a smouldering fire that burnt in the dark, lay hidden in the dregs of it.
austen|It is not very likely, my dear, that bathing should have been of use to herand if I had known you were wanting an embrocation, I would have spoken to  You seem to me to have forgotten Mrs and Miss Bates, said Emma, I have not heard one inquiry after them.
austen|Emma was sorry;to have to pay civilities to a person she did not like through three long months!
dickens|interposed the grave lady.
austen|I give you notice that as I find your son, so I shall judge of him.
austen|Jane was quite longing to go to Ireland, from his account of things.
austen|said she; well, that is quite unexpected.
dickens|He will then let you in.
dickens|At which juncture, he exclaimed, in a voice of dire exasperation  Bust me, if she aint at it agin!
austen|Emma wished he would be less pointed, yet could not help being amused; and when on glancing her eye towards Jane Fairfax she caught the remains of a smile, when she saw that with all the deep blush of consciousness, there had been a smile of secret delight, she had less scruple in the amusement, and much less compunction with respect to her.
austen|She was received, however, very politely by them; and in their brothers manners there was something better than politeness; there was good humour and kindness.
dickens|Before she spoke again, she turned her eyes from me, and looked at the dress she wore, and at the dressingtable, and finally at herself in the lookingglass.
austen|John and Isabella, and every other friend, were agreed in approving it.
dickens|With me?
dickens|In the midst of them, the hangman, ever busy and ever worse than useless, was in constant requisition; now, stringing up long rows of miscellaneous criminals; now, hanging a housebreaker on Saturday who had been taken on Tuesday; now, burning people in the hand at Newgate by the dozen, and now burning pamphlets at the door of Westminster Hall; today, taking the life of an atrocious murderer, and tomorrow of a wretched pilferer who had robbed a farmers boy of sixpence.
dickens|He had turned towards me now, and was shaking his head, and blowing, and towelling himself.
austen|You have, I believe, and know the whole.
dickens|A wildlooking woman, whom even in his agitation, Mr Lorry observed to be all of a red colour, and to have red hair, and to be dressed in some extraordinary tightfitting fashion, and to have on her head a most wonderful bonnet like a Grenadier wooden measure, and good measure too, or a great Stilton cheese, came running into the room in advance of the inn servants, and soon settled the question of his detachment from the poor young lady, by laying a brawny hand upon his chest, and sending him flying back against the nearest wall.
dickens|She withdrew her hands and went out of the room, and Mr Jaggers, putting the decanters on from his dumbwaiter, filled his glass and passed round the wine.
dickens|More than that; Monsieur Manette is, for all reasons, best out of France.
dickens|When he had drunk this second time, he rose from the bench on which he sat, and pushed the table aside.
austen|It was now the middle of June, and the weather fine; and Mrs Elton was growing impatient to name the day, and settle with Mr Weston as to pigeonpies and cold lamb, when a lame carriagehorse threw every thing into sad uncertainty.
austen|Will you be very angry with me, my dear Lizzy, if I take this opportunity of saying what I was never bold enough to say before how much I like him.
austen|A few inferior dwellings were first to be passed, and then, about a quarter of a mile down the lane rose the Vicarage, an old and not very good house, almost as close to the road as it could be.
dickens|And now, Mr Pip, said he, with his hands still in the sleeves, I have probably done the most I can do; but if I can ever do more,from a Walworth point of view, and in a strictly private and personal capacity,I shall be glad to do it.
austen|Mr Bennet treated the matter differently.
dickens|Indeed?
austen|Enscombe is in Yorkshire?
austen|The ladies had not been long in the drawingroom, before the other ladies, in their different divisions, arrived.
austen|Ayebecause she asked him at last how he liked Netherfield, and he could not help answering her; but she said he seemed quite angry at being spoke to.
dickens|If I had cried before, I should have had Joe with me then.
austen|Yes; and every delay makes one more apprehensive of other delays.
austen|This is the last time I shall ever remember it myself.
dickens|The carriage left the streets behind, passed the North Barrier, and emerged upon the country road.
dickens|I often paid him a visit in the dark backroom in which he consorted with an inkjar, a hatpeg, a coalbox, a stringbox, an almanac, a desk and stool, and a ruler; and I do not remember that I ever saw him do anything else but look about him.
austen|The house belonged to people in business.
dickens|And are not engaged?
dickens|I am sure of it.
dickens|Each of us would then refer to a confused heap of papers at his side, which had been thrown into drawers, worn into holes in pockets, half burnt in lighting candles, stuck for weeks into the lookingglass, and otherwise damaged.
dickens|Yes, Joe.
austen|If I were as rich as Mr Darcy, cried a young Lucas, who came with his sisters, I should not care how proud I was.
austen|I am sure they were talking of me; and I could not help thinking that he was persuading her to speak to medo you think he was, Miss Woodhouse?
dickens|Perhaps, to observe whether he had any spectre on his conscience.
dickens|that I knew of the slightest action of his fingers.
dickens|Gentlemen, I returned, I am that Doctor Manette of whom you speak so graciously.
dickens|Before I could answer if I could have answered so difficult a question at all she repeated, Love her, love her, love her!
austen|message to Miss Smith!
dickens|But the village was very peaceful and quiet, and the light mists were solemnly rising, as if to show me the world, and I had been so innocent and little there, and all beyond was so unknown and great, that in a moment with a strong heave and sob I broke into tears.
dickens|Only her father and Mr Lorry were with her.
dickens|Miss Manette had taken some refreshment on the road, and required none then, and was extremely anxious to see the gentleman from Tellsons immediately, if it suited his pleasure and convenience.
dickens|Yes.
dickens|Go on!
austen|In the few minutes conversation which she had yet had with him, while Harriet had been partially insensible, he had spoken of her terror, her naivete, her fervour as she seized and clung to his arm, with a sensibility amused and delighted; and just at last, after Harriets own account had been given, he had expressed his indignation at the abominable folly of Miss Bickerton in the warmest terms.
dickens|I do seek that.
austen|I could not go away you know, because of the rain; but I did so wish myself anywhere in the world but there.
dickens|Have you seen anything of London yet?
austen|Delightful to gather for ones selfthe only way of really enjoying them.
dickens|Let him make a tool of me afresh and again?
dickens|Soldiers have marched into the prison in the night, and he is in the midst of many soldiers.
austen|that I had never seen her!
austen|I can think of but one thingWho is in love with her?
austen|Elton may talk sentimentally, but he will act rationally.
dickens|I think for others?
austen|If any thing could increase her delight, it was perceiving that the baby would soon have outgrown its first set of caps.
austen|I began to be afraid you would never come back again.
austen|It was only said, Lately, George Wickham, Esq.
dickens|Let me start from my bed as I would, with the terror fresh upon me that he was discovered; let me sit listening, as I would with dread, for Herberts returning step at night, lest it should be fleeter than ordinary, and winged with evil news,for all that, and much more to like purpose, the round of things went on.
dickens|There they are, Sydney.
austen|What does he say?
dickens|I saw that the bride within the bridal dress had withered like the dress, and like the flowers, and had no brightness left but the brightness of her sunken eyes.
dickens|Though every vestige of her dress was burnt, as they told me, she still had something of her old ghastly bridal appearance; for, they had covered her to the throat with white cottonwool, and as she lay with a white sheet loosely overlying that, the phantom air of something that had been and was changed was still upon her.
dickens|This was a courage that Madame Defarge so little comprehended as to mistake for weakness.
dickens|In an unselfish aspect, I am sorry that the thing is dropped, because it would have been a bad thing for me in a worldly point of view; in a selfish aspect, I am glad that the thing has dropped, because it would have been a bad thing for me in a worldly point of viewit is hardly necessary to say I could have gained nothing by it.
dickens|Who taught me to be proud?
dickens|I have never been here since.
dickens|The best and the worst are known to you, now.
dickens|I never saw him for this happened fiveandtwenty years ago, before you and I were, Handel, but I have heard my father mention that he was a showy man, and the kind of man for the purpose.
austen|This she had been prepared for when she entered the house; but meant, having once talked him handsomely over, to be no farther incommoded by any troublesome topic, and to wander at large amongst all the Mistresses and Misses of Highbury, and their cardparties.
dickens|Molten lead and iron boiled in the marble basin of the fountain; the water ran dry; the extinguisher tops of the towers vanished like ice before the heat, and trickled down into four rugged wells of flame.
dickens|You know you must say yes; dont you?
dickens|It was a shaded lamp, to shine upon a book, and its circle of light was very contracted; so that he was in it for a mere instant, and then out of it.
austen|Dreadful!
dickens|Now, to the prisoners conversation, Miss Manette.
austen|I thought them a habit, a trick, nothing that called for seriousness on my side.
dickens|Turn to the paper.
austen|Aye, very true.
austen|She listened most attentively to all that passed between them, and gloried in every expression, every sentence of her uncle, which marked his intelligence, his taste, or his good manners.
dickens|At that time it was customary to carry Convicts down to the dockyards by stagecoach.
austen|There she isno, thats somebody else.
austen|At last it arrested herand she beheld a striking resemblance to Mr Darcy, with such a smile over the face as she remembered to have sometimes seen when he looked at her.
dickens|Earnestness in you, is anything but alarming to me.
austen|Poor Harriet!
austen|Such relief, however, as it was in her power to afford, by the practice of what might be called economy in her own private expences, she frequently sent them.
dickens|You can say what you like, returned the sergeant, standing coolly looking at him with his arms folded, but you have no call to say it here.
dickens|The court was all astir and abuzz, when the black sheepwhom many fell away from in dreadpressed him into an obscure corner among the crowd.
austen|No, I fancy not, replied Mrs Elton, with a most satisfied smile.
austen|Should not they walk?
dickens|That, hereupon he had ascertained, through the registers on the table, that his soninlaw was among the living prisoners, and had pleaded hard to the Tribunalof whom some members were asleep and some awake, some dirty with murder and some clean, some sober and some notfor his life and liberty.
austen|Her health seemed for the moment completely derangedappetite quite goneand though there were no absolutely alarming symptoms, nothing touching the pulmonary complaint, which was the standing apprehension of the family, Mr Perry was uneasy about her.
austen|And with a low bow he left her to attack Mr Darcy, whose reception of his advances she eagerly watched, and whose astonishment at being so addressed was very evident.
austen|You cannot be more than twenty, I am sure, therefore you need not conceal your age.
austen|Were she a woman of fortune, I would leave every harmless absurdity to take its chance, I would not quarrel with you for any liberties of manner.
dickens|Silence!
dickens|When the prosecution opened and the evidence was put short, aforehand, I noticed how heavy it all bore on me, and how light on him.
dickens|I do indeed, Joe.
austen|I left them there and came on to Hartfield, impatient for your opinion, and hoping you might be persuaded to join them and give your advice on the spot.
austen|With assumed tranquillity he then replied I have no wish of denying that I did everything in my power to separate my friend from your sister, or that I rejoice in my success.
dickens|There was a stage, that evening, when she spoke collectedly of what had happened, though with a certain terrible vivacity.
dickens|Likewise wot Ill stand by you, right or wrong.
austen|cried Harriet, coming eagerly into the roomis not this the oddest news that ever was?
austen|to look on, while repeated attentions were offering to another woman, before her face, and not resent it.
austen|Anything beyond the very neighbourhood of Longbourn, I suppose, would appear far.
austen|Find such a woman as soon as you can, bring her to Hunsford, and I will visit her.
austen|My poor mother does not know how to bear it.
austen|I always say a woman cannot have too many resourcesand I feel very thankful that I have so many myself as to be quite independent of society.
dickens|Well, then, said Joe, Its more than twenty pound.
dickens|She is living now.
austen|You really are a very sad girl, and do not know how to take care of yourself.
austen|I am only resolved to act in that manner, which will, in my own opinion, constitute my happiness, without reference to you, or to any person so wholly unconnected with me.
dickens|Chokings and nervous jerkings, however, are nothing new to me when I think with anxiety of those I love.
austen|Your dear mother was so clever at all those things!
dickens|It was too much the way of Monseigneur under his reverses as a refugee, and it was much too much the way of native British orthodoxy, to talk of this terrible Revolution as if it were the only harvest ever known under the skies that had not been sownas if nothing had ever been done, or omitted to be done, that had led to itas if observers of the wretched millions in France, and of the misused and perverted resources that should have made them prosperous, had not seen it inevitably coming, years before, and had not in plain words recorded what they saw.
austen|I remembered what I used to do myself.
austen|She wrote even to Jane on the occasion, to express her delight, and repeat all her former professions of regard.
dickens|There was an inhospitable smell in the room, of cold soot and hot dust; and, as I looked up into the corners of the tester over my head, I thought what a number of bluebottle flies from the butchers, and earwigs from the market, and grubs from the country, must be holding on up there, lying by for next summer.
dickens|You wish you were going yourself?
austen|Any nonsense will serve.
austen|for the very moment Mr Cole told Mrs Cole of it, she sat down and wrote to me.
dickens|the spy asked.
austen|What a disappointment it would be!
dickens|We made the money up this morning, sir, said one of the men, submissively, while the other perused Mr Jaggerss face.
dickens|Put some punch to it and smooth it again.
austen|Miss Woodhouse, how kind you are!
austen|He told me every thing; his circumstances and plans, and what they all proposed doing in the event of his marriage.
austen|Yes, I call it a very easy distance.
dickens|Not to death, said the uncle; it is not necessary to say, to death.
dickens|Old Barley might be as old as the hills, and might swear like a whole field of troopers, but there were redeeming youth and trust and hope enough in Chinkss Basin to fill it to overflowing.
dickens|said Joe, drawing his shoeingstool near the forge.
austen|If Miss Woodhouse would not be displeased, she would rather stay at home.
austen|no, no, nohow can you suspect me of such a thing?
austen|Emma grieved that she could not be more openly just to one important service which his better sense would have rendered her, to the advice which would have saved her from the worst of all her womanly folliesher wilful intimacy with Harriet Smith; but it was too tender a subject.
dickens|Estella who?
dickens|She rolled up her knitting when she had said those words, and presently took the rose out of the handkerchief that was wound about her head.
austen|Harriet is worth a hundred suchAnd for a wifea sensible mans wifeit is invaluable.
dickens|Dont look forward to variety, but youll have excellence.
austen|At night she opened her heart to Jane.
dickens|The citizeness looking at him, he became embarrassed, evaded her glance as a small dog would have done, retreated among his wood, and hid his confusion over the handle of his saw.
austen|Mr Collins had only to change from Jane to Elizabethand it was soon donedone while Mrs Bennet was stirring the fire.
dickens|Dont tell me anything I dont want to know anything; I am not curious.
austen|The world is blinded by his fortune and consequence, or frightened by his high and imposing manners, and sees him only as he chooses to be seen.
dickens|This effect on my anxious fancy was partly referable, no doubt, to his old face and manner growing more familiar to me; but I believe too that he dragged one of his legs as if there were still a weight of iron on it, and that from head to foot there was Convict in the very grain of the man.
dickens|There is no doubt of the Jury?
dickens|Many a night he vaguely and unhappily wandered there, when wine had brought no transitory gladness to him; many a dreary daybreak revealed his solitary figure lingering there, and still lingering there when the first beams of the sun brought into strong relief, removed beauties of architecture in spires of churches and lofty buildings, as perhaps the quiet time brought some sense of better things, else forgotten and unattainable, into his mind.
dickens|Far into the night, Miss Havishams words, Love her, love her, love her!
austen|For the present, he could not be spared, to his very great mortification and regret; but still he looked forward with the hope of coming to Randalls at no distant period.
dickens|I havent begun insuring yet, he replied.
dickens|The last time.
austen|Mr Darcy!
austen|By the bye, said Frank Churchill to Mrs Weston presently, what became of Mr Perrys plan of setting up his carriage?
austen|He had come, in his anxiety to see how she bore Frank Churchills engagement, with no selfish view, no view at all, but of endeavouring, if she allowed him an opening, to soothe or to counsel her.
austen|These are conditions which, considering everything, I had no hesitation in complying with, as far as I thought myself privileged, for you.
austen|Mr Elton indeed!
austen|Mr Elton looked all happiness at this proposition; and nothing could exceed his alertness and attention in conducting them into his house and endeavouring to make every thing appear to advantage.
dickens|The people immediately behind Madame Defarge, explaining the cause of her satisfaction to those behind them, and those again explaining to others, and those to others, the neighbouring streets resounded with the clapping of hands.
austen|She was so busy in admiring those soft blue eyes, in talking and listening, and forming all these schemes in the inbetweens, that the evening flew away at a very unusual rate; and the suppertable, which always closed such parties, and for which she had been used to sit and watch the due time, was all set out and ready, and moved forwards to the fire, before she was aware.
dickens|What place is that?
austen|She was stopped by a cough.
dickens|said the clerk, in a low voice, giving him a stir with his elbow.
dickens|My answer was, that I had heard of the name.
dickens|I do not doubt your loving Lucie; you may be satisfied of it.
dickens|I am sure I shall be very happy to show London to you.
austen|We can all plague and punish one another.
dickens|Well!
dickens|said he.
austen|You did!
austen|Indeed, you are mistaken, Madam.
austen|Oh!
dickens|And I aint a mastermind, Joe resumed, when he had unfixed his look, and got back to his whisker.
dickens|The speaker who struck in, was Sydney Carton.
austen|There was a great deal of friendly and of compassionate attachment on his sidebut no love.
austen|Pray take care, Mrs Weston, there is a step at the turning.
dickens|He recovered himself almost instantly.
dickens|I never doubted until within this hour or two, that he had, or could have such a paper.
dickens|But I have thought it possible that you might have it in your power, if you should deem it right, to give me some.
dickens|It was fine summer weather again, and, as I walked along, the times when I was a little helpless creature, and my sister did not spare me, vividly returned.
dickens|With some vague misgiving that she might get upon the table then and there and die at once, the complete realization of the ghastly waxwork at the Fair, I shrank under her touch.
austen|She often tried to provoke Darcy into disliking her guest, by talking of their supposed marriage, and planning his happiness in such an alliance.
dickens|O yes, you are to see me; you are to come when you think proper; you are to be mentioned to the family; indeed you are already mentioned.
austen|My dearest Emma, said he, for dearest you will always be, whatever the event of this hours conversation, my dearest, most beloved Emmatell me at once.
austen|very unaccountable!
austen|And that I suppose is one of your sisters.
austen|Well, said Charlotte, I wish Jane success with all my heart; and if she were married to him tomorrow, I should think she had as good a chance of happiness as if she were to be studying his character for a twelvemonth.
dickens|Youll be oneandtwenty before you know where you are, and then perhaps youll get some further enlightenment.
austen|and having to relate such a thing of his sister!
dickens|said Mr Jaggers, turning to the man, who was pulling a lock of hair in the middle of his forehead, like the Bull in Cock Robin pulling at the bellrope; your man comes on this afternoon.
dickens|Standing by for a little, while they were at work, I observed that the odd looks they had cast at one another were repeated several times with this difference now, that each of them seemed suspicious, not to say conscious, of having shown himself in a weak and unprofessional light to the other.
austen|They are not far off.
dickens|Say all!
dickens|The mender of roads, blue cap in hand, wiped his swarthy forehead with it, and said, Where shall I commence, monsieur?
austen|Darcy, on the contrary, had seen a collection of people in whom there was little beauty and no fashion, for none of whom he had felt the smallest interest, and from none received either attention or pleasure.
austen|I went in for three minutes, and was detained by Miss Batess being absent.
austen|She endeavoured to secure Jane in her interest; but Jane, with all possible mildness, declined interfering; and Elizabeth, sometimes with real earnestness, and sometimes with playful gaiety, replied to her attacks.
dickens|I never thought this of him.
austen|Does any body else occur to you at this moment under such a definition?
dickens|Quite an untaught genius, I made the discovery of the line of action for myself.
dickens|Its the end of May, Pip.
dickens|What have I done!
dickens|Mr Lorry immediately remembered, and regarded his new visitor with an undisguised look of abhorrence.
austen|It was settled so, upon the hill, while we were walking about with Mr Knightley.
dickens|I was not present at the ceremony; but my opinion is you were, said Carton.
austen|The conversation soon turned upon fishing; and she heard Mr Darcy invite him, with the greatest civility, to fish there as often as he chose while he continued in the neighbourhood, offering at the same time to supply him with fishing tackle, and pointing out those parts of the stream where there was usually most sport.
austen|poor Jane is ill!
austen|Surprise was the least of her feelings on this development.
dickens|I believe you.
dickens|Yah!
dickens|It would be madness if I asked you to escape; but do I?
dickens|I want a passenger, if it is.
dickens|I repeated, with disdainful emphasis.
dickens|Madame Defarge took him to the door, and put her arm on his, in pointing out the road.
dickens|Quick!
austen|Fatigued as she had been by the mornings walk they had no sooner dined than she set off again in quest of her former acquaintance, and the evening was spent in the satisfactions of a intercourse renewed after many years discontinuance.
austen|The others had been talking of the child, Mrs Weston giving an account of a little alarm she had been under, the evening before, from the infants appearing not quite well.
dickens|No matter with what other words we parted; we parted.
dickens|Certainly; and in these chambers.
austen|However, I recollected afterwards that if he had been prevented going, the wedding need not be put off, for Mr Darcy might have done as well.
austen|You speak as if you envied him.
austen|You must decide for yourself, said Elizabeth; and if, upon mature deliberation, you find that the misery of disobliging his two sisters is more than equivalent to the happiness of being his wife, I advise you by all means to refuse him.
dickens|Like Monsieur Manette, your father, the gentleman was of repute in Paris.
austen|She soon learnt that they were indebted for their present good understanding to the efforts of his aunt, who did call on him in her return through London, and there relate her journey to Longbourn, its motive, and the substance of her conversation with Elizabeth; dwelling emphatically on every expression of the latter which, in her ladyships apprehension, peculiarly denoted her perverseness and assurance; in the belief that such a relation must assist her endeavours to obtain that promise from her nephew which she had refused to give.
austen|She was short, plump, and fair, with a fine bloom, blue eyes, light hair, regular features, and a look of great sweetness, and, before the end of the evening, Emma was as much pleased with her manners as her person, and quite determined to continue the acquaintance.
austen|Captain Weston was a general favourite; and when the chances of his military life had introduced him to Miss Churchill, of a great Yorkshire family, and Miss Churchill fell in love with him, nobody was surprized, except her brother and his wife, who had never seen him, and who were full of pride and importance, which the connexion would offend.
dickens|Was I absurd?
austen|Elizabeth could never address her without feeling that all the comfort of intimacy was over, and though determined not to slacken as a correspondent, it was for the sake of what had been, rather than what was.
dickens|I find I am not quite unscrewed yet.
dickens|Yet I do not call to mind that I was ever in my earlier youth the subject of remark in our social family circle, but some largehanded person took some such ophthalmic steps to patronize me.
austen|I would ask for the pleasure of your company, Mr Knightley, but I am a very slow walker, and my pace would be tedious to you; and, besides, you have another long walk before you, to Donwell Abbey.
austen|The kindness and protection of Mrs Elton!
austen|It would never do.
austen|I hope not of a putrid infectious sort.
dickens|The only ray of hope that Mr Lorry could discover, was, that he sometimes furtively looked up without being asked.
austen|Take your choice, but you must be satisfied with only one.
dickens|You cannot see him, my poor dear?
dickens|Well!
austen|Gracechurch Street, Monday, August 2.
austen|Your cousins conduct does not suit my feelings.
dickens|Oh yes.
austen|yes, quite indispensable.
austen|Time, you may be sure, will make one or the other of us think differently; and, in the meanwhile, we need not talk much on the subject.
austen|They are some of my very old friends.
dickens|How could I, he returned, forced to the admission, when I never see her in my life?
austen|Mrs Elton seemed most favourably impressed by the size of the room, the entrance, and all that she could see or imagine.
austen|But after all the punishment that misconduct can bring, it is still not less misconduct.
austen|I hear such different accounts of you as puzzle me exceedingly.
austen|said Jane.
dickens|When I was very small and timid, he gave me to understand that the Devil lived in a black corner of the forge, and that he knew the fiend very well also that it was necessary to make up the fire, once in seven years, with a live boy, and that I might consider myself fuel.
austen|The charm of her own name was not wanting.
austen|You must take care of yourself, Mrs Elton.
austen|I am sure Wickham would like a place at court very much, and I do not think we shall have quite money enough to live upon without some help.
dickens|The man cries, Down, Evremonde!
dickens|I have loved you ever since I first saw you in this house.
dickens|Through all his stages, Mr Jaggers followed him with the same strange interest.
dickens|Previous to placing it before him, he went into the Ageds room with a clean white cloth, and tied the same under the old gentlemans chin, and propped him up, and put his nightcap on one side, and gave him quite a rakish air.
austen|In Franks last letter she complained, he said, of being too weak to get into her conservatory without having both his arm and his uncles!
austen|And then you have added so much to it yourself, you are always buying books.
austen|An airing in the Hartfield carriage would have been the rack, and arrowroot from the Hartfield storeroom must have been poison.
dickens|Now, it is of no use asking too much of me.
dickens|Hush!
dickens|Every little habitation within the great foul nest of one high buildingthat is to say, the room or rooms within every door that opened on the general staircaseleft its own heap of refuse on its own landing, besides flinging other refuse from its own windows.
austen|Yes, said Harriet earnestly, and well she might, nobody could ever have a better.
dickens|And off her head comes!
dickens|Impossible!
dickens|All the human breath in the place, rolled at him, like a sea, or a wind, or a fire.
austen|Things did not seemthat is, there seemed a little cloud upon the spirits of some.
dickens|Quiet!
dickens|I believe he had been knighted himself for storming the English grammar at the point of the pen, in a desperate address engrossed on vellum, on the occasion of the laying of the first stone of some building or other, and for handing some Royal Personage either the trowel or the mortar.
austen|And when the party entered the assembly room it consisted of only five altogetherMr Bingley, his two sisters, the husband of the eldest, and another young man.
austen|If I could but have kept longer away!
austen|There was a little hesitation in Emmas answer.
austen|so much ease, with such perfect good breeding!
dickens|A moment of profound silence followed.
dickens|Which it is well beknown to yourself, Pip, returned Joe, strengthening his former mixture of argumentation, confidence, and politeness, that it were the wish of your own hart.
dickens|The coach, with Mr Jaggers inside, came up in due time, and I took my boxseat again, and arrived in London safe,but not sound, for my heart was gone.
dickens|I said; and Herbert came bursting in, with the airy freshness of six hundred miles of France upon him.
austen|Mrs Cole was saying the other day she wanted something from Kingston.
dickens|A most beastly place.
dickens|I nodded harder.
dickens|Ah, what a pity!
dickens|Heighhohum!
dickens|But, Uncle Pumblechook, who was omnipotent in that kitchen, wouldnt hear the word, wouldnt hear of the subject, imperiously waved it all away with his hand, and asked for hot gin and water.
dickens|In the midst of these fluttering thoughts, the escort appeared, took her in, and took her away.
austen|To talk would be only to irritate.
dickens|You can do that.
austen|as for me, my judgment is worth nothing.
austen|But how shall I ever be able to return the paper, or say I have found it out?
dickens|Pooh!
austen|Mr Weston, always alert when business was to be done, and as incapable of procrastinating any evil that was inevitable, as of foreseeing any that was doubtful, said, It was time to go; and the young man, though he might and did sigh, could not but agree, to take leave.
austen|or is it too short?
dickens|He was so obliging as to suggest my father for your tutor, and he called on my father to propose it.
dickens|I am not so much to look at, am I?
austen|no, upon my word I have not the smallest wish for your marrying Jane Fairfax or Jane any body.
dickens|He presently stood at the door immediately beneath me, smoking his pipe, and Biddy stood there too, quietly talking to him, and I knew that they talked of me, for I heard my name mentioned in an endearing tone by both of them more than once.
austen|He was anxious to avoid the notice of his cousins, from a conviction that if they saw him depart, they could not fail to conjecture his design, and he was not willing to have the attempt known till its success might be known likewise; for though feeling almost secure, and with reason, for Charlotte had been tolerably encouraging, he was comparatively diffident since the adventure of Wednesday.
dickens|Unless he wants to get rid of the friend,and then it becomes a question how much portable property it may be worth to get rid of him.
austen|It settled the matter; and they pursued the accustomed circuit; which brought them again, after some time, in a descent among hanging woods, to the edge of the water, and one of its narrowest parts.
austen|Elizabeth preserved as steady a silence as either Mrs Hurst or Miss Bingley; and even Lydia was too much fatigued to utter more than the occasional exclamation of Lord, how tired I am!
austen|It would be dreadful!
dickens|What fine hidden sensibilities are touched in such a case, no echoes tell; but it is so, and it was so here.
dickens|said one of them, contemplating the fallen figure.
dickens|I dont think I do, said Carton.
dickens|Why didnt you ever go to school, Joe, when you were as little as me?
dickens|With a hope ever darkening, and with a heart always growing heavier and heavier, Mr Lorry passed through this anxious time.
austen|I always stand up for womenand I assure you, if you knew how Selina feels with respect to sleeping at an inn, you would not wonder at Mrs Churchills making incredible exertions to avoid it.
austen|They were now approaching the cottage, and all idle topics were superseded.
dickens|The place is national property now, and used as a kind of armoury, my love.
dickens|Gradually, these strings of ragged people shortened and frayed away; and then poor lights began to shine in high windows, and slender fires were made in the streets, at which neighbours cooked in common, afterwards supping at their doors.
dickens|Ever kicked downstairs?
dickens|Swords!
dickens|How do you know it?
austen|But let me advise you to think better of it.
austen|Gratifying, however, and stimulative as was the letter in the material part, its sentiments, she yet found, when it was folded up and returned to Mrs Weston, that it had not added any lasting warmth, that she could still do without the writer, and that he must learn to do without her.
austen|Could I mention any thing more fit to be done, than to go to Mrs Goddard?
austen|The moment of her release from him was ecstasy.
dickens|Hes an invalid now, replied Herbert.
dickens|I sat with Provis last night, Handel, two good hours.
dickens|As the ancient clerk deliberately folded and superscribed the note, Mr Cruncher, after surveying him in silence until he came to the blottingpaper stage, remarked  I suppose theyll be trying Forgeries this morning?
austen|A situation, a most desirable situation, was in question.
austen|I will speak to her about it directly.
dickens|There was a knot of three men and two women standing at a corner, and one of the women was crying on her dirty shawl, and the other comforted her by saying, as she pulled her own shawl over her shoulders, Jaggers is for him, Melia, and what more could you have?
austen|Harriet Smith has some firstrate qualities, which Mrs Elton is totally without.
dickens|Keeping Miss Havisham in the background at a great distance, I still hinted at the possibility of my having competed with him in his prospects, and at the certainty of his possessing a generous soul, and being far above any mean distrusts, retaliations, or designs.
dickens|I hope to do my part faithfully.
austen|They are descended, on the maternal side, from the same noble line; and, on the fathers, from respectable, honourable, and ancientthough untitledfamilies.
dickens|Its not much to be particular about, said the sergeant; itll do you small good, my man, being in the same plight yourself.
austen|The youth and cheerfulness of morning are in happy analogy, and of powerful operation; and if the distress be not poignant enough to keep the eyes unclosed, they will be sure to open to sensations of softened pain and brighter hope.
dickens|said I.
dickens|This wont do, old fellow!
austen|My dear Mrs Weston, do not take to matchmaking.
austen|The sitting was altogether very satisfactory; she was quite enough pleased with the first days sketch to wish to go on.
austen|Ah!
austen|She looked at her father to entreat his interference, lest Mary should be singing all night.
austen|Lydia was occasionally a visitor there, when her husband was gone to enjoy himself in London or Bath; and with the Bingleys they both of them frequently staid so long, that even Bingleys good humour was overcome, and he proceeded so far as to talk of giving them a hint to be gone.
dickens|Does he think me a ghost?
austen|She had no fear of its spreading farther through his means.
dickens|But, the lesser grindstone stood alone there in the calm morning air, with a red upon it that the sun had never given, and would never take away.
dickens|The traveller had travelled far, and his feet were footsore, and his ankles chafed and bleeding; his great shoes, stuffed with leaves and grass, had been heavy to drag over the many long leagues, and his clothes were chafed into holes, as he himself was into sores.
austen|That would be so very painful a conclusion of their present acquaintance!
dickens|Other people have been similarly buried in worse prisons, before now.
dickens|Joe pronounced this word, as if it began with at least twelve capital Bs.
dickens|At certain timesmeaning at uncertain times, for they depended on our humorI would say to Herbert, as if it were a remarkable discovery,  My dear Herbert, we are getting on badly.
dickens|All very bad, very bad!
austen|It will be taking out my freedom.
dickens|It being all spent, he said, rising  So far, we have spoken before these two, because it was as well that the merits of the cards should not rest solely between you and me.
dickens|That, if it were in the nature of traitorous ways to thrive which happily it never was, the real wickedness and guilt of his business might have remained undiscovered.
dickens|He got heavily bruised, for I am sorry to record that the more I hit him, the harder I hit him; but he came up again and again and again, until at last he got a bad fall with the back of his head against the wall.
dickens|said I.
austen|my sins, my sins!
austen|You alluded to something else.
dickens|As pleasantly as I could anywhere, away from you.
dickens|It was midnight before I took him round to Essex Street, and saw him safely in at his own dark door.
dickens|My uncle, I muttered.
dickens|O!
austen|here is the charade you were so obliging as to leave with us; thank you for the sight of it.
dickens|And behold!
austen|Shall we walk, Augusta?
austen|Nothing is more deceitful, said Darcy, than the appearance of humility.
austen|The possibility of Mr Collinss fancying himself in love with her friend had once occurred to Elizabeth within the last day or two; but that Charlotte could encourage him seemed almost as far from possibility as she could encourage him herself, and her astonishment was consequently so great as to overcome at first the bounds of decorum, and she could not help crying out  Engaged to Mr Collins!
austen|Colonel Forster will, I dare say, do everything in his power to satisfy us on this head.
dickens|I must ask him point blank.
austen|To take herbe it only an hour or twofrom her aunt, to give her change of air and scene, and quiet rational conversation, even for an hour or two, might do her good; and the following morning she wrote again to say, in the most feeling language she could command, that she would call for her in the carriage at any hour that Jane would namementioning that she had Mr Perrys decided opinion, in favour of such exercise for his patient.
dickens|If what I had upon me when taken had been real, Mr Wemmick, said the man, unwilling to let his hand go, I should have asked the favor of your wearing another ringin acknowledgment of your attentions.
austen|She had better have stayed at home, cried Elizabeth; perhaps she meant well, but, under such a misfortune as this, one cannot see too little of ones neighbours.
austen|Depend upon it he had encouragement.
dickens|Mr AttorneyGeneral had to inform the jury, that the prisoner before them, though young in years, was old in the treasonable practices which claimed the forfeit of his life.
austen|Yes, sir; but I do not know when that will be.
austen|Well, and that is as early as most men can afford to marry, who are not born to an independence.
dickens|Above all, one hideous figure grew as familiar as if it had been before the general gaze from the foundations of the worldthe figure of the sharp female called La Guillotine.
dickens|He was at a loss how to answer, until he remembered having spoken of a condition.
dickens|His arms and legs were like great pincushions of those shapes, and his attire disguised him absurdly; but I knew his halfclosed eye at one glance.
dickens|Ive seen lettersAh!
austen|Any place would do, of about three or four hundred a year; but however, do not speak to Mr Darcy about it, if you had rather not.
austen|Beyond it she would on no account proceed.
dickens|But he was often talked at, while they were in progress, by reason of Mrs Joes perceiving that he was not favorable to my being taken from the forge.
dickens|Let it deceive them, then, a little longer; it cannot deceive them too much.
dickens|What is he prepared to swear?
dickens|One of us, by the by, had not said it at all.
dickens|Hey?
dickens|Joe had been at the Three Jolly Bargemen, smoking his pipe, from a quarter after eight oclock to a quarter before ten.
dickens|When I saw him in the room he had this expressive pockethandkerchief in both hands, and was looking at us.
dickens|That the secret was still a secret, except that you had got wind of it.
austen|This is a matter of mere common politeness and goodbreeding, and has nothing to do with any encouragement to people to marry.
austen|Aye, do, Frank.
dickens|Cant be helped, said Miss Pross, shaking her head.
dickens|For Joe had actually laid his head down on the pillow at my side, and put his arm round my neck, in his joy that I knew him.
dickens|He began to have suspicions of the prisoner, and to keep an eye upon him, soon afterwards.
austen|Jane looked well, and Elizabeth had little opportunity of studying her spirits, amidst the various engagements which the kindness of her aunt had reserved for them.
austen|Elizabeth instantly read her feelings, and at that moment solicitude for Wickham, resentment against his enemies, and everything else, gave way before the hope of Janes being in the fairest way for happiness.
dickens|I could not see my father weep, and sit by, careless.
dickens|These are mere business relations, miss; there is no friendship in them, no particular interest, nothing like sentiment.
austen|The son looked convinced.
dickens|Would you not?
austen|I had not thought of it before, but that is the best way.
austen|Harriet, here comes a very sudden trial of our stability in good thoughts.
austen|Emma was obliged to fancy what she likedbut she could never believe that in the same situation she should not have discovered the truth.
dickens|At first Biddy gave a cry, as if she thought it was my apparition, but in another moment she was in my embrace.
dickens|I will do so.
dickens|Whether common ones as to callings and earnings, pursued Joe, reflectively, mightnt be the better of continuing for to keep company with common ones, instead of going out to play with oncommon ones,which reminds me to hope that there were a flag, perhaps?
dickens|No matter how unreasonable the terror, so that it be terror.
dickens|My poor dear Handel, Herbert repeated.
austen|But that would be all over now.
dickens|The ghost of beauty, the ghost of stateliness, the ghost of elegance, the ghost of pride, the ghost of frivolity, the ghost of wit, the ghost of youth, the ghost of age, all waiting their dismissal from the desolate shore, all turning on him eyes that were changed by the death they had died in coming there.
dickens|Let us look at his infamous name.
dickens|repeated Mr Jaggers, shutting his eyes and nodding his head at Joe, as if he were forgiving him something.
austen|The venison was roasted to a turnand everybody said they never saw so fat a haunch.
dickens|They had pulled one sudden stroke ahead, had got their oars in, had run athwart us, and were holding on to our gunwale, before we knew what they were doing.
austen|Stop; Mr Knightley was standing just here, was not he?
dickens|If theres Death hid inside of it, there is, and let him come out, and Ill face him, and then Ill believe in him and not afore.
dickens|I mean I am a man of moremore  Say gallantry, while you are about it, suggested Carton.
austen|Lady Catherine seemed pleased.
austen|She had no doubt of Harriets happiness with any goodtempered man; but with him, and in the home he offered, there would be the hope of more, of security, stability, and improvement.
dickens|Mithter Jaggerth!
austen|I cannot do justice to his kindness.
austen|There, Mrs Bennet.
dickens|We had been sitting in the bright warm sunlight, looking at the river, and I chanced to say as we got up,  See, Joe!
dickens|I left her for dead, and if there had been a limekiln as nigh her as there is now nigh you, she shouldnt have come to life again.
austen|Lady Catherine rose also, and they turned back.
dickens|Well then, Ill tell you, said Stryver, coming slowly into a sitting posture.
austen|Latterly she had been more and more aware of it.
dickens|As to the strength of his case, he had not a doubt about it, but clearly saw his way to the verdict.
dickens|They were in what is called a good position, and visited, and were visited by, numbers of people.
austen|Nothing less than the complaisance of a courtier could have borne without anger such treatment; but Sir Williams good breeding carried him through it all; and though he begged leave to be positive as to the truth of his information, he listened to all their impertinence with the most forbearing courtesy.
dickens|Our booked passenger showed in a moment that it was his name.
austen|not at all, replied Mr Knightley, rather displeased; I do not want to think ill of him.
dickens|From whom newly arrived, did he come out, agitated and surprised, to take his favourite in his arms?
austen|Mr Darcys letter she was in a fair way of soon knowing by heart.
austen|Lady Catherine has been of infinite use, which ought to make her happy, for she loves to be of use.
dickens|What do you think that is?
dickens|The suitor, kissing the hem of the garment again before relinquishing it, replied, Habraham Latharuth, on thuthpithion of plate.
dickens|Dye hear what he did?
austen|Now, said she, that this first meeting is over, I feel perfectly easy.
austen|Will Mr Frank Churchill pass through Bath as well as Oxford?
dickens|Thus far my sense of sight; while dry rot and wet rot and all the silent rots that rot in neglected roof and cellar,rot of rat and mouse and bug and coachingstables near at hand besidesaddressed themselves faintly to my sense of smell, and moaned, Try Barnards Mixture.
dickens|We made a very good meal by the kitchen fire, and then apportioned the bedrooms Herbert and Startop were to occupy one; I and our charge the other.
dickens|What would you have me do, my Life?
dickens|For, we always ran into new debt immediately, to the full extent of the margin, and sometimes, in the sense of freedom and solvency it imparted, got pretty far on into another margin.
austen|She wished him to know that she had been assured of his absence before she came to the place, and accordingly began by observing, that his arrival had been very unexpectedfor your housekeeper, she added, informed us that you would certainly not be here till tomorrow; and indeed, before we left Bakewell, we understood that you were not immediately expected in the country.
dickens|I kept myself to myself and my thoughts.
austen|But, my dear papa, it is supposed to be summer; a warm day in summer.
dickens|Alarmbells ringing, drums beating, the sea raging and thundering on its new beach, the attack began.
dickens|He said, Farewell!
dickens|said Miss Havisham, flashing her eyes upon her, are you tired of me?
austen|There cannot be two opinions about him.
dickens|repeated Stryver, drawing back.
dickens|They went up slowly and softly.
dickens|And now I ask you what you say to the conscience of that man who, with that passage before his eyes, can lay his head upon his pillow after having pronounced a fellowcreature guilty, unheard?
dickens|Answer him one question, and hell ask you a dozen directly.
dickens|The leading curiosity is, to know which is he; he stands at the back of the tumbril with his head bent down, to converse with a mere girl who sits on the side of the cart, and holds his hand.
dickens|All the village, pursued the mender of roads, on tiptoe and in a low voice, withdraws; all the village whispers by the fountain; all the village sleeps; all the village dreams of that unhappy one, within the locks and bars of the prison on the crag, and never to come out of it, except to perish.
dickens|It chanced that they derived a kind of security from the patriotic occupation of the main building, but the truehearted old gentleman never calculated about that.
austen|He had a comfortable home for her, and Emma imagined a very sufficient income; for though the vicarage of Highbury was not large, he was known to have some independent property; and she thought very highly of him as a goodhumoured, wellmeaning, respectable young man, without any deficiency of useful understanding or knowledge of the world.
dickens|Not at all.
austen|Booksoh!
austen|If you wish me to talk to Mrs Hodges, or to inspect anything  I have not the least wish for it, I thank you.
dickens|I have thoroughly made up my mind about it.
austen|His company so sought after, that every body says he need not eat a single meal by himself if he does not chuse it; that he has more invitations than there are days in the week.
dickens|Come then!
dickens|I reflected that even in those untoward times there must have been latent in Biddy what was now developing, for, in my first uneasiness and discontent I had turned to her for help, as a matter of course.
austen|How do you like Mrs Elton?
austen|You know we have settled all that already.
austen|Howsoever that may be, you are grievously to be pitied; in which opinion I am not only joined by Mrs Collins, but likewise by Lady Catherine and her daughter, to whom I have related the affair.
dickens|By some invisible agency, my guardian wound him up to a pitch little short of ferocity about this trifle; and he fell to baring and spanning his arm to show how muscular it was, and we all fell to baring and spanning our arms in a ridiculous manner.
dickens|said Drummle.
austen|The invitation was accepted of course, and at a proper hour they joined the party in Lady Catherines drawingroom.
austen|What sort of girl is Miss Darcy?
dickens|I saw him over your shoulder.
dickens|And what do you call her?
dickens|said the Doctor, turning towards the window.
austen|I could change my shoes, you know, the moment I got home; and it is not the sort of thing that gives me cold.
austen|If it was not for the drawback of her illnessbut I am afraid we must expect to see her grown thin, and looking very poorly.
austen|Her present home, he could not but observe, was unfavourable to a nervous disorderconfined always to one room;he could have wished it otherwiseand her good aunt, though his very old friend, he must acknowledge to be not the best companion for an invalid of that description.
dickens|Therefore, when Sunday came, the mender of roads was not enchanted though he said he was to find that madame was to accompany monsieur and himself to Versailles.
dickens|dye mind me?
dickens|In the little world in which children have their existence whosoever brings them up, there is nothing so finely perceived and so finely felt as injustice.
dickens|Yes?
dickens|You shall not get off in that way, rejoined Stryver, shouldering the rejoinder at him; no, Sydney, its my duty to tell youand I tell you to your face to do you goodthat you are a devilish illconditioned fellow in that sort of society.
dickens|No, said I, certainly not.
dickens|Ah, the unfortunate, miserable people!
dickens|I only saw in him a much better man than I had been to Joe.
dickens|Now, I wont have it!
austen|She is a riddle, quite a riddle!
austen|They are very fond of being at Hartfield, Harriet.
dickens|He had already explained to her that his concealment from herself of the name he had relinquished, was the one conditionfully intelligible nowthat her father had attached to their betrothal, and was the one promise he had still exacted on the morning of their marriage.
dickens|Theyll soon go.
dickens|Nevvy?
dickens|The upshot was, that we found a worthy young merchant or shippingbroker, not long established in business, who wanted intelligent help, and who wanted capital, and who in due course of time and receipt would want a partner.
dickens|Ever borrow money of the prisoner?
austen|You know nothing of drawing.
dickens|His first impression was confirmed.
dickens|Yes.
dickens|He was gobbling mincemeat, meatbone, bread, cheese, and pork pie, all at once staring distrustfully while he did so at the mist all round us, and often stoppingeven stopping his jawsto listen.
dickens|All this passed in a few seconds.
dickens|Many are under the displeasure of the Republic, and must look out at the little window.
dickens|What is it?
dickens|Miss Havisham, if you would spare the money to do my friend Herbert a lasting service in life, but which from the nature of the case must be done without his knowledge, I could show you how.
dickens|This chap why you must have come down in the night and been peeping into the inkstand, to get this blot upon your eyebrow, you old rascal!
dickens|he replied.
dickens|I hope you may be able to think so well of me, as to urge no influence against me.
dickens|It was November, and my guardian was standing before his fire leaning his back against the chimneypiece, with his hands under his coattails.
austen|Let me recommend Bath to you.
dickens|As a wife and mother!
austen|Who would have thought that she could be so thin and small?
dickens|Help, help!
dickens|It does me good fur to look at you, Pip.
austen|But Mrs Bennet was not so well pleased with it.
austen|He is so excessively handsome!
dickens|The polite rejection of the three lumps of breadandcheese had quite bloated Mr Stryver with indignation, which he afterwards turned to account in the training of the young gentlemen, by directing them to beware of the pride of Beggars, like that tutorfellow.
dickens|For, I stood shaking my head.
dickens|Its enough for you, retorted Mr Cruncher, to be the wife of a honest tradesman, and not to occupy your female mind with calculations when he took to his trade or when he didnt.
dickens|No, no, said Biddy, gently.
dickens|Mr Lorry was out in the night, before he knew where he was.
dickens|Nor yet I dont intend to advertise myself in the newspapers by the name of A.
dickens|Doctor Manette received him kindly, and so did Lucie.
dickens|I said I should be delighted to accept his hospitality.
austen|It is very unlucky; but as I have actually paid the visit, we cannot escape the acquaintance now.
dickens|As he imparted this melancholy circumstance to Wemmick, Mr Jaggers standing magisterially before the fire and taking no share in the proceedings, Mikes eye happened to twinkle with a tear.
austen|She was resolved not to be convinced, as long as she could doubt, and yet had no authority for opposing Harriets confidence.
austen|Well, Mrs Weston, you have prevailed, I hope, and these ladies will oblige us.
austen|And, above all, keep Mr Bennet from fighting.
austen|He knew Miss Fairfax could have no music here.
dickens|What for?
dickens|Now, Joe, examining this iron with a smiths eye, declared it to have been filed asunder some time ago.
dickens|How does it come about at all?
austen|So cold and artificial!
dickens|I have observed his face!
austen|Astonished that the person who had brought me up should be a gentlewoman!
austen|Do not let us quarrel about the past.
dickens|He flared the candle at me again, smoking my face and hair, and for an instant blinding me, and turned his powerful back as he replaced the light on the table.
austen|There must be ample room in it for every real comfort.
austen|You will see nothing of it by candlelight.
dickens|Soft Head!
austen|Ah, you do not know what I suffer.
dickens|When he had spoken some sound words of sympathy and encouragement, we sat down to consider the question, What was to be done?
dickens|They joined hands, and the man sat down on the heap of stones.
dickens|See, gentlemen, said I, still keeping my hands upon her breast, how useless I am, as you have brought me!
dickens|Yes, yes, thank God.
austen|She was resolved against any sort of conversation with him, and turned away with a degree of illhumour which she could not wholly surmount even in speaking to Mr Bingley, whose blind partiality provoked her.
austen|You must be the best judge of your own happiness.
austen|We consider our Hartfield pork, replied Mr Woodhouseindeed it certainly is, so very superior to all other pork, that Emma and I cannot have a greater pleasure than  Oh!
dickens|she replied, glancing over her shoulder as he slouched after us, because II am afraid he likes me.
dickens|More months, to the number of twelve, had come and gone, and Mr Charles Darnay was established in England as a higher teacher of the French language who was conversant with French literature.
dickens|He is dead.
dickens|The hungry man gnawed one of his fingers as he looked at the other three, and his finger quivered with the craving that was on him.
dickens|The Matthew whom Mr and Mrs Camilla had spoken of.
austen|To Isabella, the relief of such tidings was very great, and they were scarcely less acceptable to Emma on her fathers account, who was immediately set as much at ease on the subject as his nervous constitution allowed; but the alarm that had been raised could not be appeased so as to admit of any comfort for him while he continued at Randalls.
austen|Must not compliment, I know eyeing Emma most complacentlythat would be rudebut upon my word, Miss Woodhouse, you do lookhow do you like Janes hair?
austen|I have been acting contrary to all my sense of right; and the fortunate turn that every thing has taken, and the kindness I am now receiving, is what my conscience tells me ought not to be.
dickens|She looked at me keenly for a little while, and then said quietly,  What do you want for them?
dickens|Then I bethought me of a crutch, the shape being much the same, and I borrowed one in the village, and displayed it to my sister with considerable confidence.
austen|What say you both to our collecting the same party, and exploring to Box Hill again, while the fine weather lasts?
austen|No, I should have turned in a moment.
dickens|The parting interview has overpowered me.
austen|I really must talk to him about purchasing a donkey.
austen|Mr Woodhouse very soon followed them into the drawingroom.
dickens|You are one of us, as I may say.
austen|She was a beautiful creature when she came to you, but, in my opinion, the attractions you have added are infinitely superior to what she received from nature.
austen|To that point went every leisure moment which her fathers claims on her allowed, and every moment of involuntary absence of mind.
dickens|Fiftytwo.
austen|He was expected back every day.
austen|But there is nobody hereabouts to attach her; and she goes so seldom from home.
austen|The style of the letter was much above her expectation.
austen|Who that knows what his misfortunes have been, can help feeling an interest in him?
dickens|And mind you!
dickens|And him I found.
austen|Let the other young ladies have time to exhibit.
austen|And, gathering her work together, she was hastening away, when Elizabeth called out  Dear madam, do not go.
dickens|So Ill nod my head, thought Mr Cruncher, amazed, at all events shell see that.
austen|I do not require you to adopt all my suspicions, though you make so noble a profession of doing it, but I honestly tell you what they are.
austen|There can be no occasion for your going so soon.
dickens|Yet, having already made his fortune in his own mind, he was so unassuming with it that I felt quite grateful to him for not being puffed up.
dickens|I was very hot indeed upon Old Orlicks daring to admire her; as hot as if it were an outrage on myself.
dickens|When I got up in the morning, refreshed and stronger yet, I was full of my resolution to tell Joe all, without delay.
dickens|You know he is as ungainly within as without.
austen|They only knew each other, I think, a few weeks in Bath!
austen|Are you speaking ofMr Knightley?
austen|It was owing to her persuasion, as she thought his being out in bad weather did him a great deal of harm.
dickens|When Herbert had been down to Hammersmith and seen his father, he came back to me at our chambers, and devoted the day to attending on me.
dickens|And it was he, without doubt, who scratched a calendar on this stone.
dickens|This was all the establishment.
austen|He heard her attentively, and then said  Lydia will never be easy until she has exposed herself in some public place or other, and we can never expect her to do it with so little expense or inconvenience to her family as under the present circumstances.
dickens|said she, fixing her eyes upon me.
dickens|I had not seen him alone since the disastrous issue of the attempted flight; and he had come, in his private and personal capacity, to say a few words of explanation in reference to that failure.
austen|After a slight preparation for good news, the letter was read aloud.
dickens|I am sorry, Pip, said he, as I put the check in my pocket, when he had signed it, that we do nothing for you.
dickens|Yes, repeated the Marquis.
dickens|Mr Lorry got his arm securely round the daughters waist, and held her; for he felt that she was sinking.
austen|He does not want abilities.
dickens|What an admirable woman; what an adorable woman!
dickens|Such vapouring, combined with the extravagant plots of Monseigneur for the restoration of a state of things that had utterly exhausted itself, and worn out Heaven and earth as well as itself, was hard to be endured without some remonstrance by any sane man who knew the truth.
austen|Concession must be out of the question; but it was time to appear to forget that they had ever quarrelled; and she hoped it might rather assist the restoration of friendship, that when he came into the room she had one of the children with herthe youngest, a nice little girl about eight months old, who was now making her first visit to Hartfield, and very happy to be danced about in her aunts arms.
dickens|Thank Goodness it will always be a consolation to me to know that I instantly went out in a pouring rain and bought the things.
austen|Yes, replied Harriet modestly, but not fearfullyI must say that I have.
dickens|to a better course?
dickens|Oh!
dickens|Yes, said I.
dickens|Louder, Vengeance, much louder, and still she will scarcely hear thee.
dickens|Like Monsieur Manette, your father, the gentleman was of Beauvais.
austen|You excel so much in the dance, Miss Eliza, that it is cruel to deny me the happiness of seeing you; and though this gentleman dislikes the amusement in general, he can have no objection, I am sure, to oblige us for one halfhour.
dickens|He wishes me most particular to write what larks.
dickens|I merely want, Mr Jaggers, said I, to assure myself that what I have been told is true.
dickens|I am not thankless, I hope, but that dreadful woman seems to throw a shadow on me and on all my hopes.
dickens|While Estella was away lighting them down, Miss Havisham still walked with her hand on my shoulder, but more and more slowly.
austen|Let her go, then.
dickens|No.
dickens|returned the other, sighing yes!
austen|and yet, she could not help rather anticipating something decisive.
dickens|If ever there were love in the world, I love her.
dickens|The gluttony of Swine is put before us, as an example to the young.
dickens|What ARE you a doing of this afternoon, Mum!
austen|who can think of Miss Smith, when Miss Woodhouse is near!
dickens|Yah!
austen|no, I could not endure William Coxea pert young lawyer.
dickens|Exquisite gentlemen of the finest breeding, which was at that remarkable timeand has been sinceto be known by its fruits of indifference to every natural subject of human interest, were in the most exemplary state of exhaustion, at the hotel of Monseigneur.
dickens|I knowd my name to be Magwitch, chrisend Abel.
dickens|he returned.
austen|A degradation to illegitimacy and ignorance, to be married to a respectable, intelligent gentlemanfarmer!
austen|She followed him with her eyes, envied everyone to whom he spoke, had scarcely patience enough to help anybody to coffee; and then was enraged against herself for being so silly!
austen|Elizabeth coloured, and said A little.
austen|She could not bear that her master should not be able to have another appletart this spring.
dickens|Waste forces within him, and a desert all around, this man stood still on his way across a silent terrace, and saw for a moment, lying in the wilderness before him, a mirage of honourable ambition, selfdenial, and perseverance.
austen|He meets with a young woman at a wateringplace, gains her affection, cannot even weary her by negligent treatmentand had he and all his family sought round the world for a perfect wife for him, they could not have found her superior.
austen|The expense shall not be thought of; and though he is so liberal, and so fond of Jane that I dare say he would not mean to charge any thing for attendance, we could not suffer it to be so, you know.
dickens|Looks pretty; dont it?
austen|But you were preparing yourself to be an excellent wife all the time you were at Hartfield.
austen|They were never tolerated at Maple Grove.
austen|It is the very last thing I would stand the brunt of just now.
dickens|and they bring him faster.
dickens|Is this the emigrant Evremonde?
dickens|and the mans eyes looked at me, and then looked over my head, and then looked all round me, and then he drew his hand across his lips and laughed.
austen|So I said, I was very much obliged to him you know I could not do less; and then he went back to Elizabeth, and I came round by the stablesI believe I didbut I hardly knew where I was, or any thing about it.
dickens|I know Mr Lorry, sir, much better than I know the Bailey.
austen|There was not much in the question, nor in the preceding remark; but there was a look and a manner which gave them meaning.
dickens|Her father thanks you.
austen|Their mutual affection will steady them; and I flatter myself they will settle so quietly, and live in so rational a manner, as may in time make their past imprudence forgotten.
dickens|But dear me, I beg your pardon, youre holding the fruit all this time.
dickens|replied Orlick, sending his glance all round him with an air of injury.
dickens|Instantly afterwards, the company were seized with unspeakable consternation, owing to his springing to his feet, turning round several times in an appalling spasmodic whoopingcough dance, and rushing out at the door; he then became visible through the window, violently plunging and expectorating, making the most hideous faces, and apparently out of his mind.
dickens|Without distinctly knowing whether I should have been more sorry for Mr Wopsle if he had been in despair, I was so sorry for him as it was, that I took the opportunity of his turning round to have his braces put on,which jostled us out at the doorway,to ask Herbert what he thought of having him home to supper?
dickens|said Mr Jaggers, opening his office door.
austen|However, he wrote some verses on her, and very pretty they were.
dickens|asked Estella.
austen|Mr Darcy looked a little ashamed of his aunts illbreeding, and made no answer.
austen|Yes, there can; for mine is totally different.
austen|Your parish there was small, said Jane.
austen|She was obliged to repeat and explain it, before it was fully comprehended; and then, being quite new, farther representations were necessary to make it acceptable.
austen|It would not have been the awkwardness of a moment, it would have been rather a pleasure, previous to the suspicions of this very day; she could have talked to him of Harriet, and the threequarters of a mile would have seemed but one.
dickens|All work is stopped, all assemble there, nobody leads the cows out, the cows are there with the rest.
dickens|he muttered, at his own image; why should you particularly like a man who resembles you?
dickens|The business of this enchanter on earth being principally to be talked at, sung at, butted at, danced at, and flashed at with fires of various colors, he had a good deal of time on his hands.
dickens|Emigrant, said the functionary, I am going to send you on to Paris, under an escort.
austen|such thorough worthy people!
austen|but dear Miss Woodhouse, she is now in such retirement, such obscurity, so thrown away.
dickens|And Magwitchin New South Waleshaving at last disclosed himself,  said Mr Jaggers, you will comprehend, Pip, how rigidly throughout my communication with you, I have always adhered to the strict line of fact.
dickens|Good night, Pip.
dickens|As we contemplated the fire, and as I thought what a difficult vision to realize this same Capital sometimes was, I put my hands in my pockets.
austen|Oh!
dickens|His shirtsleeves were rolled up, too, and his brown arms were bare to the elbows.
dickens|His great strength seemed to sit stronger upon him than ever before, as he did this with his hands hanging loose and heavy at his sides, and with his eyes scowling at me.
austen|I, who knew what he was.
dickens|I had had no intercourse with the world at that time, and I imitated none of its many inhabitants who act in this manner.
dickens|About on a level with his eyes, there sat, in that corner of the Judges bench, two persons upon whom his look immediately rested; so immediately, and so much to the changing of his aspect, that all the eyes that were turned upon him, turned to them.
dickens|I believe your object to be, purely and truthfully, as you have stated it.
austen|You must know that though I should be exceedingly grieved at their disapprobation, I could not hesitate.
austen|He was then, he said, on his way to Longbourn on purpose to inquire after her.
dickens|It was a poorer hand than he suspected.
dickens|I give the promise, said the Doctor, without any condition.
austen|Isabella, to be sure, was no very quick observer; yet if Harriet had not been equal to playing with the children, it would not have escaped her.
dickens|What are you going to do to me?
dickens|The last few drops of liquor he poured into the palm of his hand, and licked up.
dickens|Old Bailey spy, returned his informant.
dickens|said Mr Jaggers.
dickens|You have been accustomed to see him often, I suppose?
dickens|But I think there was a person, too, come in alonger me.
dickens|A figure all in yellow white, with but one shoe to the feet; and it hung so, that I could see that the faded trimmings of the dress were like earthy paper, and that the face was Miss Havishams, with a movement going over the whole countenance as if she were trying to call to me.
dickens|And when, at the fortnights end, he comes to join you and your beloved husband, on your other fortnights trip in Wales, you shall say that we have sent him to you in the best health and in the happiest frame.
dickens|This being considered a good precaution, soon after breakfast he and I set forth, without saying anything at the tavern.
dickens|He shall be registered tomorrow.
dickens|Great Heaven!
dickens|Then, and not sooner, I became aware of a strange gentleman leaning over the back of the settle opposite me, looking on.
dickens|I was obliged to answer in some confusion, I dont think I am, maam.
dickens|I am.
dickens|This greatly distressed Mrs Pocket, who burst into tears on receiving the note, and said that it was an extraordinary thing that the neighbors couldnt mind their own business.
austen|He had long made up his mind to Jane Fairfaxs going out as governess, and could talk of it cheerfully, but Mr Knightleys going to London had been an unexpected blow.
dickens|As a tutor, whose attainments made the students way unusually pleasant and profitable, and as an elegant translator who brought something to his work besides mere dictionary knowledge, young Mr Darnay soon became known and encouraged.
austen|How rejoiced was Elizabeth that their own journey had not by any circumstance been delayed a day!
austen|I do not at all know; but I heard nothing of his going away when I was at Netherfield.
dickens|You will have to go with him, and then he may be induced to go.
austen|My dear Lizzy, they must have passed within ten miles of us.
austen|She resolved to give her the information herself, and therefore charged Mr Collins, when he returned to Longbourn to dinner, to drop no hint of what had passed before any of the family.
dickens|Either beats or cringes, said Wemmick, not at all addressing himself to me.
austen|I am much mistaken if Emmas doctrines give any strength of mind, or tend at all to make a girl adapt herself rationally to the varieties of her situation in life.
dickens|Thats what she did, said Joe, slowly clearing the fire between the lower bars with the poker, and looking at it; she Rampaged out, Pip.
dickens|O!
dickens|said Provis coming forward, with his little clasped black book, and then addressing himself to Herbert.
austen|Let him but continue the same Mr Knightley to her and her father, the same Mr Knightley to all the world; let Donwell and Hartfield lose none of their precious intercourse of friendship and confidence, and her peace would be fully secured.
dickens|It was The Vengeance who, amidst the warm commendations of the audience, thus assisted the proceedings.
austen|I will attack them with more address.
austen|But my dancing days are over, Mrs Weston.
austen|Frank Churchill, of whom, in the eagerness of her conversation with Mrs Weston, she had been seeing nothing, except that he had found a seat by Miss Fairfax, followed Mr Cole, to add his very pressing entreaties; and as, in every respect, it suited Emma best to lead, she gave a very proper compliance.
austen|She had heard nothing of Lady Catherine that spoke her awful from any extraordinary talents or miraculous virtue, and the mere stateliness of money or rank she thought she could witness without trepidation.
dickens|Patriots and friends, we are ready!
dickens|The gaolers wife, being provided with no answer to the question, merely replied, One must have patience, my dear!
dickens|When I was first hired out as shepherd tother side the world, its my belief I should ha turned into a molloncollymad sheep myself, if I hadnt a had my smoke.
dickens|It was another halfhour before I drew near to the kiln.
dickens|No favourable leaning in that quarter today.
dickens|Mudbank, mist, swamp, and work; work, swamp, mist, and mudbank.
austen|True; and nobody can ever be introduced in a ballroom.
dickens|Pooh!
austen|But we considered it, we talked of it as impossible.
austen|They are all for what they can get.
dickens|It was a case of jealousy.
austen|There will be enough of them, in all probability, to supply every sort of sensation that declining life can need.
austen|said Elizabeth to herself.
austen|They were always moving from place to place in quest of a cheap situation, and always spending more than they ought.
dickens|Mrs Pocket was sitting on a garden chair under a tree, reading, with her legs upon another garden chair; and Mrs Pockets two nursemaids were looking about them while the children played.
austen|But, my dearest Jane, you cannot seriously imagine that because Miss Bingley tells you her brother greatly admires Miss Darcy, he is in the smallest degree less sensible of your merit than when he took leave of you on Tuesday, or that it will be in her power to persuade him that, instead of being in love with you, he is very much in love with her friend.
austen|If I can come again, we are still to have our ball.
dickens|said he, glancing about him over the cold wet flat.
dickens|Doctor Manette, formerly of Beauvais, said the other; the young physician, originally an expert surgeon, who within the last year or two has made a rising reputation in Paris?
austen|Her allowance is very liberal; nothing has ever been grudged for her improvement or comfort.
dickens|The moment they sprang there, the girl looked at me with a quick delight in having been the cause of them.
dickens|Spies!
austen|There go you and your riddlebook one of these days.
austen|Quite seasonable; and extremely fortunate we may think ourselves that it did not begin yesterday, and prevent this days party, which it might very possibly have done, for Mr Woodhouse would hardly have ventured had there been much snow on the ground; but now it is of no consequence.
austen|but those two lines are  The best of all.
dickens|The Gorgon had surveyed the building again in the night, and had added the one stone face wanting; the stone face for which it had waited through about two hundred years.
austen|was a question which Elizabeth received from Jane as soon as she entered their room, and from all the others when they sat down to table.
austen|said Mr Weston, looking about.
dickens|A very few moments after that, a young woman, with a slight girlish form, a sweet spare face in which there was no vestige of colour, and large widely opened patient eyes, rose from the seat where he had observed her sitting, and came to speak to him.
dickens|The boys eyes had slowly moved to him as he had spoken, and they now slowly moved to me.
austen|There has been a solemn engagement between them ever since Octoberformed at Weymouth, and kept a secret from every body.
austen|No, no, nonsense, Lizzy.
austen|She would sit whenever I asked her.
dickens|Though that makes no difference to you.
dickens|Provis was to be strictly careful while I was gone, and Herbert was to take the charge of him that I had taken.
austen|Aye, very true.
austen|Lady Lucas quieted her fears a little by starting the idea of his being gone to London only to get a large party for the ball; and a report soon followed that Mr Bingley was to bring twelve ladies and seven gentlemen with him to the assembly.
dickens|Yes.
dickens|Hi forward.
dickens|In this prison that I am going to so unjustly, shall I have some free communication with the world outside?
austen|In what respect?
dickens|How often have you seen Miss Estella before?
austen|Lady Catherine continued her remarks on Elizabeths performance, mixing with them many instructions on execution and taste.
dickens|The nooks of ruin where the old monks had once had their refectories and gardens, and where the strong walls were now pressed into the service of humble sheds and stables, were almost as silent as the old monks in their graves.
dickens|I had never parted from him before, and what with my feelings and what with soapsuds, I could at first see no stars from the chaisecart.
dickens|In this cosey state of mind we came to the verdict Wilful Murder.
austen|He had just looked into the diningroom, and as he was not wanted there, preferred being out of doors.
dickens|Mr Crunchers eyes seemed to get a little closer to one another, and to interchange the inquiry, What do you think of this?
dickens|I had the highest opinion of the wisdom of this same Margin, but I am bound to acknowledge that on looking back, I deem it to have been an expensive device.
dickens|What with the birthday visitors, and what with the cards, and what with the fight, my stay had lasted so long, that when I neared home the light on the spit of sand off the point on the marshes was gleaming against a black nightsky, and Joes furnace was flinging a path of fire across the road.
austen|I am not in want of that sort of compassion.
austen|Her uncle and aunt were all amazement; and the embarrassment of her manner as she spoke, joined to the circumstance itself, and many of the circumstances of the preceding day, opened to them a new idea on the business.
austen|Tea was made downstairs, biscuits and baked apples and wine before she came away amazing luck in some of her throws and she inquired a great deal about you, how you were amused, and who were your partners.
austen|Were the same fair prospect to arise at present as had flattered them a year ago, every thing, she was persuaded, would be hastening to the same vexatious conclusion.
dickens|Estella waved a blue flag, and I waved a red one, and Miss Havisham waved one sprinkled all over with little gold stars, out at the coachwindow.
austen|Unfeeling, selfish girl!
austen|Elizabeth, you are not serious now.
austen|Well, well, said he, do not make yourself unhappy.
dickens|A footstep in the snow.
austen|And of your infliction, cried Elizabeth with energy.
dickens|Let me see her.
dickens|How do you spell Gargery, Joe?
austen|Oh!
dickens|On the steps of a church, awaiting the comingup of the tumbrils, stands the Spy and prisonsheep.
austen|Then having recourse to her workbasket, in excuse for leaning down her face, and concealing all the exquisite feelings of delight and entertainment which she knew she must be expressing, she added, Well, now tell me every thing; make this intelligible to me.
dickens|The text of his order altered from the original by only a pronoun, which is not much ran The earth and the fulness thereof are mine, saith Monseigneur.
austen|But the fact is, that we are very different sort of men, and that he hates me.
dickens|Would you tell him, then, said she, that which Estella has come home and would be glad to see him.
dickens|Give me your hand.
austen|It is only by seeing women in their own homes, among their own set, just as they always are, that you can form any just judgment.
dickens|He leaned an elbow on her table, and covered his eyes with his hand.
austen|Elizabeth, as she affectionately embraced her, whilst tears filled the eyes of both, lost not a moment in asking whether anything had been heard of the fugitives.
dickens|Now and then, said Miss Pross.
austen|The happiness anticipated by Catherine and Lydia depended less on any single event, or any particular person, for though they each, like Elizabeth, meant to dance half the evening with Mr Wickham, he was by no means the only partner who could satisfy them, and a ball was, at any rate, a ball.
austen|Wickhams alarm now appeared in a heightened complexion and agitated look; for a few minutes he was silent, till, shaking off his embarrassment, he turned to her again, and said in the gentlest of accents  You, who so well know my feeling towards Mr Darcy, will readily comprehend how sincerely I must rejoice that he is wise enough to assume even the appearance of what is right.
dickens|A moment!
dickens|Much of that!
austen|Thats right.
austen|Were it certain that Lady Catherine would think so, said Mr Collins very gravelybut I cannot imagine that her ladyship would at all disapprove of you.
austen|Perhaps you may now begin to regret that you spent one whole day, out of so few, in having your hair cut.
austen|Mrs Bennet had many grievances to relate, and much to complain of.
austen|Emma saw symptoms of it immediately in the expression of her face; and while paying her own compliments to Mrs Bates, and appearing to attend to the good old ladys replies, she saw her with a sort of anxious parade of mystery fold up a letter which she had apparently been reading aloud to Miss Fairfax, and return it into the purple and gold reticule by her side, saying, with significant nods,  We can finish this some other time, you know.
austen|Mrs Churchill is not much in my good graces, as you may suspectbut this is quite between ourselves.
dickens|The Church not being thrown open, he was, as I have said, our clerk.
dickens|You know a compatriot who has found a Refuge there?
dickens|They do me no harm, I hope?
austen|Most comfortable carriage.
dickens|Yes, said I, edging him a little away with my shoulder.
dickens|Between ourselves.
dickens|Herbert, I shall always need you, because I shall always love you; but my need is no greater now than at another time.
austen|I do not know of any other designs that he had formed; but he was in such a hurry to be gone, and his spirits so greatly discomposed, that I had difficulty in finding out even so much as this.
dickens|You infernal scoundrel, how dare you tell ME that?
austen|Your reasonings carry my judgment along with them entirely.
austen|Mr and Mrs Gardiner smiled.
dickens|If a pretext to get him away could be made out of that other convict, or out of anything else in his life, now.
dickens|But, when his nephew, leaning an elbow on the table, covered his eyes thoughtfully and dejectedly with his hand, the fine mask looked at him sideways with a stronger concentration of keenness, closeness, and dislike, than was comportable with its wearers assumption of indifference.
dickens|Under the circumstances, I felt that Joe could hardly fail to discern in the pale young gentleman, an appropriate passenger to be put into the black velvet coach; therefore, I said nothing of him.
dickens|He referred to them, as if she were lying in our presence.
austen|He had always intended to visit him, though to the last always assuring his wife that he should not go; and till the evening after the visit was paid she had no knowledge of it.
austen|She had been unwilling to mention Bingley; and the unsettled state of her own feelings had made her equally avoid the name of his friend.
dickens|But dear Biddy, how smart you are!
dickens|No, he believed not.
dickens|We looked forward to the day when I should go out for a ride, as we had once looked forward to the day of my apprenticeship.
dickens|She was bruised and scratched and torn, and had been held by the throat, at last, and choked.
austen|He had received a good education, but, on succeeding early in life to a small independence, had become indisposed for any of the more homely pursuits in which his brothers were engaged, and had satisfied an active, cheerful mind and social temper by entering into the militia of his county, then embodied.
austen|Your only blunder was confined to my ear, when you imagined a certain friend of ours in love with the lady.
austen|You, who have been the best friend I ever had in my lifeWant gratitude to you!
dickens|Herbert had told me on former occasions, and now reminded me, that he first knew Miss Clara Barley when she was completing her education at an establishment at Hammersmith, and that on her being recalled home to nurse her father, he and she had confided their affection to the motherly Mrs Whimple, by whom it had been fostered and regulated with equal kindness and discretion, ever since.
dickens|Madame Defarge knitted with nimble fingers and steady eyebrows, and saw nothing.
austen|She was sensible that you had never received any proper acknowledgment from herself.
dickens|There was a timid and suppressed woman in attendance wife of the man downstairs, who had retreated into a corner.
dickens|If you please, sir.
dickens|Well, you see it wos me, and singlehanded.
austen|However, the very same evening William Larkins came over with a large basket of apples, the same sort of apples, a bushel at least, and I was very much obliged, and went down and spoke to William Larkins and said every thing, as you may suppose.
dickens|Well, old chap, said Joe, it do appear that she had settled the most of it, which I meantersay tied it up, on Miss Estella.
dickens|Thank you.
austen|This was the knowledge of herself, on the first question of inquiry, which she reached; and without being long in reaching it.
austen|I expected at least that the pigs were got into the garden, and here is nothing but Lady Catherine and her daughter.
dickens|Mr Darnay!
dickens|The Queen of Denmark, a very buxom lady, though no doubt historically brazen, was considered by the public to have too much brass about her; her chin being attached to her diadem by a broad band of that metal as if she had a gorgeous toothache, her waist being encircled by another, and each of her arms by another, so that she was openly mentioned as the kettledrum.
austen|But he has left my picture in Bondstreet.
dickens|What have I done!
austen|A fortnight, at least, of leisure and peace of mind, to crown every warmer, but more agitating, delight, should be hers.
austen|You never wrote a truer line.
dickens|Mr Havisham was very rich and very proud.
dickens|It was not a verbal remark, but a proceeding in dumbshow, and was pointedly addressed to me.
dickens|As I was prepared to hear, sir.
dickens|When he can get to itwhich depends on many uncertainties and incidentshe might see you in the street, he thinks, if you stood in a certain place that I can show you.
austen|I say no more than the truth, and everybody will say that knows him,  replied the other.
dickens|Take it, monsieur.
dickens|I knew it.
dickens|I go on duty soon, and cant overstay my time.
dickens|You go down here, and straight through the street, and past the fountain  To the Devil with all that!
austen|And in the wretched state of his own finances, there was a very powerful motive for secrecy, in addition to his fear of discovery by Lydias relations, for it had just transpired that he had left gaming debts behind him to a very considerable amount.
austen|and turning round he looked for a moment at Elizabeth, till catching her eye, he withdrew his own and coldly said She is tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt me; I am in no humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted by other men.
dickens|It is not in your nature to forget them.
dickens|By degrees it became an enormous injury to me that he stood before the fire.
dickens|Why yes, said Joe, lowering his voice, hes left the Church and went into the playacting.
austen|Did Charlotte dine with you?
austen|Harriet listened submissively, and said it was very trueit was just as Miss Woodhouse describedit was not worth while to think about themand she would not think about them any longer but no change of subject could avail, and the next halfhour saw her as anxious and restless about the Eltons as before.
dickens|Confide in Madame Defarge.
austen|Women fancy admiration means more than it does.
dickens|There was no boat off the point, nor any boat drawn up anywhere near it, nor were there any signs of the men having embarked there.
dickens|Up the broad flight of shallow steps, Monsieur the Marquis, flambeau preceded, went from his carriage, sufficiently disturbing the darkness to elicit loud remonstrance from an owl in the roof of the great pile of stable building away among the trees.
dickens|In my politeness, I would have stopped; but Miss Havisham twitched my shoulder, and we posted on,with a shamefaced consciousness on my part that they would think it was all my doing.
dickens|Naturally, said I.
austen|I should not be surprised, said Darcy, if he were to give it up as soon as any eligible purchase offers.
dickens|He is among us!
austen|What two letters of the alphabet are there, that express perfection?
austen|You will excuse my being so much overpowered.
dickens|he said, wrathfully, to the turnkey.
austen|While they were dressing, he came two or three times to their different doors, to recommend their being quick, as Lady Catherine very much objected to be kept waiting for her dinner.
austen|Indeed, Mr Collins, all praise of me will be unnecessary.
dickens|She wasand He wasbefore the slow years of the North Towerages ago.
austen|Do you know any family of that name?
austen|Then it can be no argument to prove that he is in love.
austen|I always take the part of my own sex.
dickens|After groping about for a little, he found the flint and steel he wanted, and began to strike a light.
dickens|There was a redeyed little Jew who came into the Close while I was loitering there, in company with a second little Jew whom he sent upon an errand; and while the messenger was gone, I remarked this Jew, who was of a highly excitable temperament, performing a jig of anxiety under a lamppost and accompanying himself, in a kind of frenzy, with the words, O Jaggerth, Jaggerth, Jaggerth!
austen|Yet time and her aunt moved slowlyand her patience and her ideas were nearly worn out before the teteatete was over.
dickens|Where do you go, my wife?
dickens|Do you make that of it?
dickens|Aamatter of businessdont be distressed.
austen|At any rate, it must be better to have only one to please than two.
dickens|The people rudely pictured as drinking in the wineshops, croaked over their scanty measures of thin wine and beer, and were gloweringly confidential together.
austen|Come, let me see the list of pitiful fellows who have been kept aloof by Lydias folly.
dickens|Miss Prosss fidelity of belief in Solomon deducting a mere trifle for this slight mistake was quite a serious matter with Mr Lorry, and had its weight in his good opinion of her.
austen|The change on Mrs Eltons side soon afterwards appeared, and she was left in peaceneither forced to be the very particular friend of Mrs Elton, nor, under Mrs Eltons guidance, the very active patroness of Jane Fairfax, and only sharing with others in a general way, in knowing what was felt, what was meditated, what was done.
dickens|I am glad I think so, Pip.
dickens|No less, no more.
dickens|My own doing, said Wemmick.
austen|You will see her to advantage; see her and hear herno, I am afraid you will not hear her at all, for she has an aunt who never holds her tongue.
dickens|Lovely girls; bright women, brownhaired, blackhaired, and grey; youths; stalwart men and old; gentle born and peasant born; all red wine for La Guillotine, all daily brought into light from the dark cellars of the loathsome prisons, and carried to her through the streets to slake her devouring thirst.
austen|But their father, though very laconic in his expressions of pleasure, was really glad to see them; he had felt their importance in the family circle.
dickens|To none.
austen|Your ladyship wants Mr Darcy to marry your daughter; but would my giving you the wishedfor promise make their marriage at all more probable?
austen|Emma, in the meanwhile, could not be satisfied without a dinner at Hartfield for the Eltons.
dickens|All the voices were in the prisoners favour, and the President declared him free.
austen|Very well, replied Emma; a most natural feeling; and the longer it lasts, the better I shall be pleased.
austen|Why do you make a doubt of it?
austen|I will read you the passage which particularly hurts me.
dickens|When this expression was upon him, he looked as if he were old; but when it was stirred and broken upas it was now, in a moment, on his speaking to his daughterhe became a handsome man, not past the prime of life.
dickens|In a moment, the whole company were on their feet.
dickens|Its a great cake.
austen|That is as formidable an image as you could present, Harriet; and if I thought I should ever be like Miss Bates!
dickens|Present!
dickens|As I was taking my departure, he asked me if I would like to devote five minutes to seeing Mr Jaggers at it?
dickens|If youd been born a Squeaker  He was, if ever a child was, said my sister, most emphatically.
austen|Read it, read it, said he, it will give you pleasure; only a few lineswill not take you long; read it to Emma.
dickens|Nonsense, she returned,nonsense.
austen|The old lady is Mrs Jenkinson, who lives with them; the other is Miss de Bourgh.
austen|Design!
dickens|There was something in its touch that gave Lucie a check.
austen|Their first subject was the diminution of the Rosings party.
dickens|Theres room.
austen|If it was to be secret, said Jane, say not another word on the subject.
dickens|Do you still think, in spite of it, that I do not mean what I say?
dickens|I, said madame, am equally engaged at the same place.
dickens|A blush on the countenance of Monsieur the Marquis was no impeachment of his high breeding; it was not from within; it was occasioned by an external circumstance beyond his controlthe setting sun.
austen|And she leaned back in the corner, to indulge her murmurs, or to reason them away; probably a little of bothsuch being the commonest process of a not illdisposed mind.
dickens|he said, looking down at her with some curiosity.
austen|Former provocations reappeared.
dickens|On Monday morning I would speak to Joe about this change, I would lay aside this last vestige of reserve, I would tell him what I had in my thoughts that Secondly, not yet arrived at, and why I had not decided to go out to Herbert, and then the change would be conquered for ever.
austen|Her answer was warmly in his favour.
dickens|Mr Lorry returned, and found no tidings of him, and brought none.
dickens|Carton, still drinking the punch, rejoined, Why should I not approve?
dickens|Will you accompany me, said Mr Lorry, joyfully relieved after reading this note aloud, to where his wife resides?
dickens|I hope, said Mr Lorry, after another pause of feeble sympathy and humility, that you accompany Miss Manette to France?
dickens|For example; supposing Herberts debts to be one hundred and sixtyfour pounds fourandtwopence, I would say, Leave a margin, and put them down at two hundred.
dickens|Pip, how AIR you, Pip?
dickens|They laid it bare, and did what they could.
dickens|Camels?
austen|I perfectly understand your situation, however, Miss Woodhouselooking towards Mr Woodhouse, Your fathers state of health must be a great drawback.
dickens|Now your dinner is done, Carton presently said, why dont you call a health, Mr Darnay; why dont you give your toast?
austen|One can see that she feels the want of encouragement.
austen|How was that possible?
austen|cried Harriet.
dickens|I am very ignorant, and it troubles mejust a little.
austen|The idea of Mr Elton was certainly cheering; but still, after a time, she was tenderhearted again towards the rejected Mr Martin.
dickens|What the Devil, I say again!
dickens|And now, old chap, said Joe, conveying to me a sensation, first of burning and then of freezing, for I felt as if that familiar expression were applied to Miss Havisham,and now, old chap, may we do our duty!
austen|I rather wished, than believed him to be sincere; but, at any rate, was perfectly ready to accede to his proposal.
austen|my mothers spectacles.
austen|After the first fortnight or three weeks of her absence, health, good humour, and cheerfulness began to reappear at Longbourn.
austen|I am afraid you do not like your pen.
austen|Mr Weston would take no denial; they must all dine at Randalls one day;even Mr Woodhouse was persuaded to think it a possible thing in preference to a division of the party.
dickens|She also bestowed a British cough on Madame Defarge; but, neither of the two took much heed of her.
dickens|What do you want?
dickens|He, and his old canvas frock, and his loose stockings, and all his poor tatters of clothes, had, in a long seclusion from direct light and air, faded down to such a dull uniformity of parchmentyellow, that it would have been hard to say which was which.
dickens|Right!
dickens|My construction even of their simple meaning was not very correct, for I read wife of the Above as a complimentary reference to my fathers exaltation to a better world; and if any one of my deceased relations had been referred to as Below, I have no doubt I should have formed the worst opinions of that member of the family.
austen|Not that I imagine he can think I have been encouraging him hitherto.
austen|She inherits her mothers talents, and must have been under subjection to her.
dickens|Mr Jaggers asked, soon after we began dinner.
austen|Such very superior dancing is not often seen.
austen|The tumult of Elizabeths mind was allayed by this conversation.
austen|At our time of life it is not so pleasant, I can tell you, to be making new acquaintances every day; but for your sakes, we would do anything.
austen|Mrs Hurst and Miss Bingley had spent some hours of the morning with the invalid, who continued, though slowly, to mend; and in the evening Elizabeth joined their party in the drawingroom.
austen|Brighton, and a whole campful of soldiers, to us, who have been overset already by one poor regiment of militia, and the monthly balls of Meryton!
dickens|If the suddenness of her calamity, and the whirling wheels of the time, had stunned the Doctors daughter into awaiting the result in idle despair, it would but have been with her as it was with many.
austen|Mr Bennet raised his eyes from his book as she entered, and fixed them on her face with a calm unconcern which was not in the least altered by her communication.
dickens|What would present company say, proceeded Joe, to twenty pound?
dickens|Saying which he went out in disdain; and the landlord, having no one to reply upon, found it impracticable to pursue the subject.
dickens|That being the name I wanted, I knocked, and an elderly woman of a pleasant and thriving appearance responded.
austen|It is natural, and it is honourable.
austen|oh!
austen|Miss Woodhouse, do you think we shall ever find it out?
austen|It was a most delightful reanimation of exhausted spirits.
austen|Vanity working on a weak head, produces every sort of mischief.
austen|In future, I hope we shall be always of one mind.
dickens|When he had at last done and had appointed to send the articles to Mr Pumblechooks on the Thursday evening, he said, with his hand upon the parlor lock, I know, sir, that London gentlemen cannot be expected to patronize local work, as a rule; but if you would give me a turn now and then in the quality of a townsman, I should greatly esteem it.
dickens|And then she added, with a stress upon the words, It is in the nature formed within me.
austen|I dare say you would; but I, simple I, saw nothing but the fact, that Miss Fairfax was nearly dashed from the vessel and that Mr Dixon caught her.
dickens|Nonsense!
dickens|Biddy, said I, in a virtuously selfasserting manner, I must request to know what you mean by this?
austen|She could then see more and judge better.
dickens|As far as it goes, its property and portable.
dickens|I confess that we were so unpopular with the outrageous mob, that I only got away from England at the risk of being ducked to death, and that Cly was so ferreted up and down, that he never would have got away at all but for that sham.
dickens|He offered these friendly suggestions in such a lively way, that we both laughed and I scarcely blushed.
dickens|Dont be so terrified, my love.
austen|Another view of man, my second brings,       Behold him there, the monarch of the seas!
dickens|I have dined with him at his private house.
dickens|As we looked full at one another, I felt my breath come quicker in my strong desire to get something out of him.
austen|And which of the two do you call my little recent piece of modesty?
austen|I was the most miserable wretch!
austen|This cannot be!
austen|You do not often overpower me with it.
austen|Me!
dickens|But, above all, I knew that there was a constant tendency in all these people,who, when I was very ill, would present all kinds of extraordinary transformations of the human face, and would be much dilated in size,above all, I say, I knew that there was an extraordinary tendency in all these people, sooner or later, to settle down into the likeness of Joe.
dickens|Not much boiling down to be done tonight, Memory, said Mr Stryver, gaily, as he looked among his papers.
austen|is Knightleys right hand.
dickens|He helped Mr Lorry to wrap himself in a number of coats and cloaks, and went out with him from the warm atmosphere of the old Bank, into the misty air of Fleetstreet.
austen|Her nose wants characterthere is nothing marked in its lines.
austen|So much the better.
dickens|So, you havent dined with Mr Jaggers yet?
austen|She wished to see the whole extent.
dickens|He regretted that Charles was not there; was more than half disposed to object to the loving little plot that kept him away; and drank to him affectionately.
dickens|Sydney Carton, idlest and most unpromising of men, was Stryvers great ally.
dickens|It was only now that I began to tremble.
dickens|Ho!
dickens|Come!
dickens|Spooney!
austen|a great pity indeed!
dickens|Indeed, when I say I wish we might be friends, I scarcely mean quite that, either.
dickens|My good Handel, so he was.
austen|Mrs Bennet and Lydia are going in the carriage to Meryton.
austen|Certainly notat first.
austen|Emma laughed and disclaimed.
dickens|Some were lamenting, and in restless motion; but, these were few.
dickens|Ten oclock, sir.
dickens|We should get on so well, Handel!
austen|Ah!
austen|and yet without being actually fair.
austen|I am sure I shall break mine, said Lydia.
dickens|I hope you have done well?
austen|Disingenuousness and double dealing seemed to meet him at every turn.
austen|My dear sir, you really are too bountiful.
dickens|The gracious and merciful Heavens forbid!
austen|And dear Emma, too!
austen|You are very obliging; but as to all that, I am very indifferent; it would be no object to me to be with the rich; my mortifications, I think, would only be the greater; I should suffer more from comparison.
austen|Mr Elton was speaking with animation, Harriet listening with a very pleased attention; and Emma, having sent the child on, was beginning to think how she might draw back a little more, when they both looked around, and she was obliged to join them.
dickens|Gracious Creator of day!
dickens|You think so?
dickens|The hour was come, when Saint Antoine was to execute his horrible idea of hoisting up men for lamps to show what he could be and do.
austen|They were off; and Emma could breathe.
dickens|Not being bound to her, can you not detach yourself from her?
austen|Your mother will never see you again if you do not marry Mr Collins, and I will never see you again if you do.
dickens|Married, Evremonde?
dickens|She fired when she asked the last question, and she slapped my face with such force as she had, when I answered it.
austen|Emma had not another word to oppose.
dickens|I have no choice, said Charles Darnay.
austen|I have heard him speak, and so must you, so very highly of Jane Fairfax!
dickens|But, within myself, I shall always be, towards you, what I am now, though outwardly I shall be what you have heretofore seen me.
dickens|Besides, Pip, Im here, because Ive meant it by you, years and years.
austen|What say you to Mr Weston and Mr Elton?
dickens|I do not doubt it, answered Mr Lorry.
austen|The intelligence, which had been so anxiously announced to her, she was now to be anxiously announcing to another.
dickens|A cold silvery mist had veiled the afternoon, and the moon was not yet up to scatter it.
dickens|Further, that it is the desire of the present possessor of that property, that he be immediately removed from his present sphere of life and from this place, and be brought up as a gentleman,in a word, as a young fellow of great expectations.
dickens|Sir, Mr Wopsle began to reply, as an Englishman myself, I  Come!
austen|I believe him to be Lady Catherines nephew.
dickens|I established with myself, on these occasions, the reputation of a firstrate man of business,prompt, decisive, energetic, clear, coolheaded.
austen|Mr Collins, to be sure, was neither sensible nor agreeable; his society was irksome, and his attachment to her must be imaginary.
austen|The fact is, that you were sick of civility, of deference, of officious attention.
austen|If he means any thing, it must be to please you.
austen|I behaved shamefully.
dickens|At first with such discourse, and afterwards with conversation of a more general nature, did Mr Wemmick and I beguile the time and the road, until he gave me to understand that we had arrived in the district of Walworth.
dickens|He was a world of trouble to you, maam, said Mrs Hubble, commiserating my sister.
austen|Into one house in this neighbourhood they shall never have admittance.
dickens|Thus, Monsieur Defarge, in a stern voice, to Mr Lorry, as they began ascending the stairs.
dickens|He had a large watchchain, and strong black dots where his beard and whiskers would have been if he had let them.
dickens|As he said these words with his eyes fixed on the writer, his hand slowly and softly moved down close to the writers face.
austen|cried Elizabeth, I am excessively diverted.
dickens|We made all the haste we could downstairs, but we were not quick enough either.
dickens|Again they exchanged their former odd looks, each apparently still distrustful that the other was taking him in.
austen|Emma only might be as nature prompted, and shew herself just as happy as she was.
austen|Well!
austen|He has the tenderest spirit of gallantry towards us all!
austen|I know nothing of the large parties of London, sirI never dine with any body.
dickens|At those times I would get up and look out at the door; for our kitchen door opened at once upon the night, and stood open on summer evenings to air the room.
dickens|We should look at this!
dickens|Its not my affair, said he, with a final shrug of the shoulders.
dickens|Keep quiet in your chair now, and leave em to me.
dickens|I believe it, answered her father, mournfully.
dickens|For once you are right.
dickens|I suppose I must be off!
dickens|Gabelle.
dickens|Yes, there!
austen|So they will, my dear.
dickens|My mind is a blank, from some timeI cannot even say what timewhen I employed myself, in my captivity, in making shoes, to the time when I found myself living in London with my dear daughter here.
dickens|Presently the honoured parent appeared to be adjusting some instrument like a great corkscrew.
dickens|For a few seconds he faintly struggled with the man who had come to lay down his life for him; but, within a minute or so, he was stretched insensible on the ground.
dickens|was the poor prisoners cry with which he strengthened his sinking heart, as he left all that was dear on earth behind him, and floated away for the Loadstone Rock.
austen|From that moment I observed my friends behaviour attentively; and I could then perceive that his partiality for Miss Bennet was beyond what I had ever witnessed in him.
dickens|Dont be alarmed; I am not going to preach.
austen|She did not mean to have her own affections entangled again, and it would be incumbent on her to avoid any encouragement of his.
austen|Whoever might be her parents, said Mr Knightley, whoever may have had the charge of her, it does not appear to have been any part of their plan to introduce her into what you would call good society.
austen|But it is so strange!
austen|He was a tall, heavylooking young man of fiveandtwenty.
dickens|This boy is a getting too many for me!
austen|She is not a clever girl, but she has better sense than you are aware of, and does not deserve to have her understanding spoken of so slightingly.
austen|Well, this is brilliant!
dickens|Nothing disturbed the tranquillity of the Castle, but the occasional tumbling open of John and Miss Skiffins which little doors were a prey to some spasmodic infirmity that made me sympathetically uncomfortable until I got used to it.
dickens|True to his notion of seeming to do it all without preparation, I heard Wemmick say to himself, as he took something out of his waistcoatpocket before the service began, Halloa!
dickens|Rely upon the patriotic Jury, dear citizeness.
austen|Elizabeth, at work in the opposite corner, saw it all with great delight.
austen|That appears quite wonderful.
austen|He would soon be among them again; Mr Elton and his bride.
dickens|No; the great magician who majestically works out the appointed order of the Creator, never reverses his transformations.
dickens|The wine was red wine, and had stained the ground of the narrow street in the suburb of Saint Antoine, in Paris, where it was spilled.
dickens|Heres a man of businessa man of yearsa man of experiencein a Bank, said Stryver; and having summed up three leading reasons for complete success, he says theres no reason at all!
dickens|Defarge got upon the box, and gave the word To the Barrier!
dickens|said Mrs Joe, throwing down the shilling and catching up the paper.
austen|But she was not at all sorry that she had abused the housekeeper the other day.
dickens|So he went round the room and shook the curtains out, put the chairs in their places, tidied the books and so forth that were lying about, looked into the hall, peeped into the letterbox, shut the door, and came back to his chair by the fire where he sat down, nursing his left leg in both arms.
dickens|And blast you all!
dickens|Everybody then murmured True!
austen|But his pride, his abominable pridehis shameless avowal of what he had done with respect to Janehis unpardonable assurance in acknowledging, though he could not justify it, and the unfeeling manner in which he had mentioned Mr Wickham, his cruelty towards whom he had not attempted to deny, soon overcame the pity which the consideration of his attachment had for a moment excited.
dickens|They allowed a very liberal table to Mr and Mrs Pocket, yet it always appeared to me that by far the best part of the house to have boarded in would have been the kitchen,always supposing the boarder capable of selfdefence, for, before I had been there a week, a neighboring lady with whom the family were personally unacquainted, wrote in to say that she had seen Millers slapping the baby.
dickens|A certain portion of his time was passed at Cambridge, where he read with undergraduates as a sort of tolerated smuggler who drove a contraband trade in European languages, instead of conveying Greek and Latin through the Customhouse.
dickens|Look over your hand, Mr Barsad, and see what you have.
dickens|Doctor Manette, said Mr Lorry, touching him affectionately on the arm, the case is the case of a particularly dear friend of mine.
dickens|Meantime the galley, which was very skilfully handled, had crossed us, let us come up with her, and fallen alongside.
austen|Mr Elton is a very pretty young man, to be sure, and a very good young man, and I have a great regard for him.
austen|Mr Bingley was goodlooking and gentlemanlike; he had a pleasant countenance, and easy, unaffected manners.
austen|The acquaintance she had already formed were unworthy of her.
austen|Harriet could just answer, Oh!
dickens|Its hard enough to kill him, but its wery hard to spile him, sir.
dickens|I had known, from the time when I could speak, that my sister, in her capricious and violent coercion, was unjust to me.
austen|They have not the same force or rapidity, and do not produce the same expression.
dickens|I believe it is well known in a constitutional country that Mr Wopsle could not possibly have returned the skull, after moralizing over it, without dusting his fingers on a white napkin taken from his breast; but even that innocent and indispensable action did not pass without the comment, Waiter!
austen|She then changed the discourse to one more gratifying to each, and on which there could be no difference of sentiment.
austen|I hope you are quite well.
dickens|In a few minutes, some mortar and dust came dropping down, which he averted his face to avoid; and in it, and in the old woodashes, and in a crevice in the chimney into which his weapon had slipped or wrought itself, he groped with a cautious touch.
austen|Still Mrs Elton insisted on being authorised to write an acquiescence by the morrows post.
dickens|I little thought, said Miss Pross, that I should ever want to understand your nonsensical language; but I would give all I have, except the clothes I wear, to know whether you suspect the truth, or any part of it.
austen|Bingley, she had likewise seen for an instant, and in that short period saw him looking both pleased and embarrassed.
austen|La!
austen|He has had great faults, faults of inconsideration and thoughtlessness; and I am very much of his opinion in thinking him likely to be happier than he deserves but still as he is, beyond a doubt, really attached to Miss Fairfax, and will soon, it may be hoped, have the advantage of being constantly with her, I am very ready to believe his character will improve, and acquire from hers the steadiness and delicacy of principle that it wants.
austen|Half a dozen natural children, perhapsand poor Frank cut off!
austen|What is it you are talking of?
austen|Without supposing them, from what she saw, to be very seriously in love, their preference of each other was plain enough to make her a little uneasy; and she resolved to speak to Elizabeth on the subject before she left Hertfordshire, and represent to her the imprudence of encouraging such an attachment.
dickens|I break down before the knowledge of what I want to say to you.
austen|And I am sure I should never want to go there; for I am never happy but at Hartfield.
dickens|Go up alonger this drivelling sick man, he says to his wife, and Magwitch, lend her a hand, will you?
dickens|You stock and stone!
dickens|Yes, citizen.
dickens|None whatever.
dickens|Son of yours?
austen|And a fine endingand there is the letter.
dickens|Openly, President.
austen|You must not blame my aunt.
austen|Sir William did not say much.
dickens|We are through the village, up the hill, and down the hill, and on the low watery grounds.
austen|You dare not, you cannot deny, that you have been the principal, if not the only means of dividing them from each otherof exposing one to the censure of the world for caprice and instability, and the other to its derision for disappointed hopes, and involving them both in misery of the acutest kind.
dickens|Her father sat silent, with his face bent down.
dickens|Four times five; will that do?
austen|The dinner was as well dressed as any I ever saw.
dickens|I never thought of making Miss Havisham any present.
dickens|Mr Lorry was a pleasant sight too, beaming at all this in his little wig, and thanking his bachelor stars for having lighted him in his declining years to a Home.
dickens|Very good, Pip, he observed, when I had concluded, Ill go round presently, and pay our friend off.
austen|Though he had detected with a critical eye more than one failure of perfect symmetry in her form, he was forced to acknowledge her figure to be light and pleasing; and in spite of his asserting that her manners were not those of the fashionable world, he was caught by their easy playfulness.
austen|If you please, my dear.
austen|Nobody could have written so prettily, but you, Emma.
austen|What a blessing, that she never had any children!
austen|We have certainly done our best; and most fortunately having it in our power to introduce you to very superior society, and, from our connection with Rosings, the frequent means of varying the humble home scene, I think we may flatter ourselves that your Hunsford visit cannot have been entirely irksome.
austen|Poor comfort!
austen|How improperly had she been acting by Harriet!
dickens|All this time Estella knitted on.
dickens|Swear it was not true?
austen|Every body who sees it is struck by its beauty; but to me, it has been quite a home.
dickens|They were in number as the weeks of the year.
austen|She did not think he was quite so hardened as his wife, though growing very like her;she spoke some of her feelings, by observing audibly to her partner,  Knightley has taken pity on poor little Miss Smith!
austen|But in general and ordinary cases between friend and friend, where one of them is desired by the other to change a resolution of no very great moment, should you think ill of that person for complying with the desire, without waiting to be argued into it?
dickens|I could answer this inquiry with a better heart than I had been able to find for the other question, and I said I was quite willing.
austen|How happy he had been to come and dine with them whenever they asked him!
austen|Wrong!
austen|I dare say they sell gloves.
austen|You have no regard, then, for the honour and credit of my nephew!
dickens|They put in with a stone twogallon jar for some beer.
dickens|Although the Doctors daughter had known nothing of the country of her birth, she appeared to have innately derived from it that ability to make much of little means, which is one of its most useful and most agreeable characteristics.
austen|I shall not give you any advice, Harriet.
dickens|As it seldom happened that I came in at that Whitefriars gate after the Temple was closed, and as I was very muddy and weary, I did not take it ill that the nightporter examined me with much attention as he held the gate a little way open for me to pass in.
austen|Dear affectionate creature!
austen|You are then resolved to have him?
dickens|Samson and his men complain sometimes, of being exhausted.
dickens|ejaculated the vexed coachman, and not atop of Shooters yet!
dickens|Indeed?
dickens|theres enough of you!
austen|If I can but see one of my daughters happily settled at Netherfield,  said Mrs Bennet to her husband, and all the others equally well married, I shall have nothing to wish for.
austen|Emma could not but picture it all, and feel how justly they might resent, how naturally Harriet must suffer.
dickens|He added in his inward and pondering manner, as he looked at the moon, It was twenty either way, I remember, and the twentieth was difficult to squeeze in.
austen|I cannot comprehend a mans wishing to give a woman any proof of affection which he knows she would rather dispense with; and he did know that she would have prevented the instruments coming if she could.
austen|She declared her resolution.
dickens|Very well.
dickens|I took the advice.
dickens|But you are lost, Monsieur Charles, I see.
austen|but to speak with such civility, to inquire after her family!
austen|but indeed I would much rather have it only in one.
dickens|Courage, courage!
dickens|I, for my part, was prepared with passports; Herbert had seen Startop, and he was more than ready to join.
austen|Such a fortnight as it has been!
dickens|The lights were nearly all extinguished in the passages, the iron gates were being closed with a jar and a rattle, and the dismal place was deserted until tomorrow mornings interest of gallows, pillory, whippingpost, and brandingiron, should repeople it.
austen|Oh!
dickens|always was for England by way of example, in the regretted days of the merry Stuart who sold it.
dickens|But when the defence come on, then I see the plan plainer; for, says the counsellor for Compeyson, My lord and gentlemen, here you has afore you, side by side, two persons as your eyes can separate wide; one, the younger, well brought up, who will be spoke to as such; one, the elder, ill brought up, who will be spoke to as such; one, the younger, seldom if ever seen in these here transactions, and only suspected; tother, the elder, always seen in em and always wi his guilt brought home.
austen|Her mothers thoughts she plainly saw were bent the same way, and she determined not to venture near her, lest she might hear too much.
dickens|said Camilla.
dickens|I am not aware, observed the grave lady whose voice I had heard but once, that to think of any person is to make a great claim upon that person, my dear.
dickens|I asked him, with a modest patronage.
dickens|I should have replied that Love was commonly reputed blind, but for the reason that I always was restrainedand this was not the least of my miseriesby a feeling that it was ungenerous to press myself upon her, when she knew that she could not choose but obey Miss Havisham.
dickens|said Miss Pross, it doesnt need an interpreter to explain the meaning of these creatures.
austen|Her coming there was the most unfortunate, the most illjudged thing in the world!
austen|what hours of transport we shall spend!
dickens|Because he had voluntarily relinquished a title that was distasteful to him, and a station that was distasteful to him, and had left his countryhe submitted before the word emigrant in the present acceptation by the Tribunal was in useto live by his own industry in England, rather than on the industry of the overladen people of France.
dickens|Stand!
dickens|They are here.
austen|Whoever Colonel Campbell might employ, said Frank Churchill, with a smile at Emma, the person has not chosen ill.
dickens|At these words, the face of him who supported me looked over into mine, and I saw my supporter to be  Herbert!
austen|It was an union that must have been to the advantage of both; by her ease and liveliness, his mind might have been softened, his manners improved; and from his judgement, information, and knowledge of the world, she must have received benefit of greater importance.
dickens|There was spurring and splashing through the darkness, and bridle was drawn in the space by the village fountain, and the horse in a foam stood at Monsieur Gabelles door.
austen|Not a walk in the rain, I should imagine.
austen|Ill, very illthat is, if a young lady can ever be allowed to look ill.
dickens|The mice have gnawed at it, and sharper teeth than teeth of mice have gnawed at me.
dickens|He asked me if I felt sure that I was as well as in the morning?
dickens|I had the happiness to know you in former times, and the Drama has ever had a claim which has ever been acknowledged, on the noble and the affluent.
dickens|But it would be a hard one to learn, and you have got beyond her, and its of no use now.
dickens|But I made a modest reply, and we shook hands warmly.
dickens|But the vapor of a limekiln would come between me and them, disordering them all, and it was through the vapor at last that I saw two men looking at me.
dickens|You may get cheated, robbed, and murdered in London.
austen|She had taken up the idea, she supposed, and made every thing bend to it.
austen|Mr Wingfield most strenuously recommended it, siror we should not have gone.
dickens|Mr AttorneyGeneral now signified to my Lord, that he deemed it necessary, as a matter of precaution and form, to call the young ladys father, Doctor Manette.
dickens|This is she.
dickens|Nor was this the end of the days bad work, for Saint Antoine so shouted and danced his angry blood up, that it boiled again, on hearing when the day closed in that the soninlaw of the despatched, another of the peoples enemies and insulters, was coming into Paris under a guard five hundred strong, in cavalry alone.
dickens|Where is it?
austen|The prospect of the Netherfield ball was extremely agreeable to every female of the family.
dickens|and my bird!
dickens|Be a man!
austen|Now what have you to say?
dickens|At any rate you know me as a dissolute dog, who has never done any good, and never will.
austen|You have a house in town, I conclude?
dickens|Im wrong in these clothes.
austen|Oh!
dickens|My clothes were rather a disappointment, of course.
austen|My excellent father died about five years ago; and his attachment to Mr Wickham was to the last so steady, that in his will he particularly recommended it to me, to promote his advancement in the best manner that his profession might allowand if he took orders, desired that a valuable family living might be his as soon as it became vacant.
austen|Good God!
austen|A whole evening of backgammon with her father, was felicity to it.
austen|Soon afterwards Mr Elton quitted them, and she could not but do him the justice of feeling that there was a great deal of sentiment in his manner of naming Harriet at parting; in the tone of his voice while assuring her that he should call at Mrs Goddards for news of her fair friend, the last thing before he prepared for the happiness of meeting her again, when he hoped to be able to give a better report; and he sighed and smiled himself off in a way that left the balance of approbation much in his favour.
dickens|It was quite a wilderness, and there were old melonframes and cucumberframes in it, which seemed in their decline to have produced a spontaneous growth of weak attempts at pieces of old hats and boots, with now and then a weedy offshoot into the likeness of a battered saucepan.
austen|A little.
austen|A resemblance in good humour and good spirits had recommended her and Lydia to each other, and out of their three months acquaintance they had been intimate two.
austen|You are a very strange creature by way of a friend!
dickens|God bless the poor little child, I said to your sister, theres room for him at the forge!
austen|His sisters uneasiness had been equally excited with my own; our coincidence of feeling was soon discovered, and, alike sensible that no time was to be lost in detaching their brother, we shortly resolved on joining him directly in London.
dickens|Yes, was the grim reply of Monsieur Defarge.
austen|Mr Woodhouse told me of it.
austen|But is it possible that you had no suspicion?
dickens|It was a desperate case, and it was comparatively early days with him then, and he worked it to general admiration; in fact, it may almost be said to have made him.
austen|But, as you had none about you, and knew I had, you desired me to supply him; and so I took mine out and cut him a piece; but it was a great deal too large, and he cut it smaller, and kept playing some time with what was left, before he gave it back to me.
austen|Mr Darcy!
dickens|And therefore, I went on, with your leave, I will suggest that we hold no kind of communication in future.
austen|Much beyond my hopes.
dickens|In a word, Madame Defarge went on, my husband has not my reason for pursuing this family to annihilation, and I have not his reason for regarding this Doctor with any sensibility.
austen|Is your master much at Pemberley in the course of the year?
austen|Of the pianoforte so much talked of, I feel it only necessary to say, that its being ordered was absolutely unknown to Miss F, who would never have allowed me to send it, had any choice been given her.
austen|Me!
austen|Mr Darcy is all politeness, said Elizabeth, smiling.
austen|Harriet, she found, had never in her life been inside the Vicarage, and her curiosity to see it was so extreme, that, considering exteriors and probabilities, Emma could only class it, as a proof of love, with Mr Eltons seeing ready wit in her.
austen|That lady, I suppose, is your mother.
dickens|You know that it is among their Rights to keep us in their grounds all night, quieting the frogs, in order that their noble sleep may not be disturbed.
dickens|replied the old man.
dickens|said he.
dickens|Under the weight of my wicked secret, I pondered whether the Church would be powerful enough to shield me from the vengeance of the terrible young man, if I divulged to that establishment.
austen|Mr Woodhouse would have been miserable had his daughter attempted it, and she was therefore safe from either exciting or receiving unpleasant and most unsuitable ideas.
dickens|Miss Manette, then!
austen|Have you thought, my dear, where you shall put herand what room there will be for the children?
dickens|Otherwise, the governor would escape, and the peoples blood suddenly of some value, after many years of worthlessness be unavenged.
austen|She had no hope, nothing to deserve the name of hope, that he could have that sort of affection for herself which was now in question; but there was a hope at times a slight one, at times much stronger, that Harriet might have deceived herself, and be overrating his regard for her.
dickens|I had often watched a large dog of ours eating his food; and I now noticed a decided similarity between the dogs way of eating, and the mans.
dickens|I do not, returned Miss Havisham.
austen|They had sung together once or twice, it appeared, at Weymouth.
austen|Mary petitioned for the use of the library at Netherfield; and Kitty begged very hard for a few balls there every winter.
austen|Here, leading the way through every walk and cross walk, and scarcely allowing them an interval to utter the praises he asked for, every view was pointed out with a minuteness which left beauty entirely behind.
dickens|I have.
austen|Pass Mr E.
dickens|Their influence on my own character I disguised from my recognition as much as possible, but I knew very well that it was not all good.
austen|You will hardly believe mebut twice in one week he and Mr Bragge went to London and back again with four horses.
austen|Do you dare to suppose me so great a blockhead, as not to know what a man is talking of?
dickens|Having supposed that there was sense where there is no sense, and a laudable ambition where there is not a laudable ambition, I am well out of my mistake, and no harm is done.
dickens|No, not forgotten, retorted Estella,not forgotten, but treasured up in my memory.
dickens|I would then take a sheet of paper, and write across the top of it, in a neat hand, the heading, Memorandum of Pips debts; with Barnards Inn and the date very carefully added.
dickens|I promised myself that I would do something for them one of these days, and formed a plan in outline for bestowing a dinner of roastbeef and plumpudding, a pint of ale, and a gallon of condescension, upon everybody in the village.
dickens|He knows it, Joseph, as none can.
dickens|Mrs Pocket read all the time, and I was curious to know what the book could be.
dickens|All the family!
dickens|Transparently!
austen|A sudden freak seemed to have seized him at breakfast, and he had sent for a chaise and set off, intending to return to dinner, but with no more important view that appeared than having his hair cut.
dickens|As the gaoler made a general inspection of these objects, and of the four walls, before going out, a wandering fancy wandered through the mind of the prisoner leaning against the wall opposite to him, that this gaoler was so unwholesomely bloated, both in face and person, as to look like a man who had been drowned and filled with water.
dickens|I dont gainsay it.
dickens|My former chill crept over me again, but I was resolved not to speak yet, for it was quite consistent with his words that he might be set on to induce me to connect these references with Provis.
dickens|Do you know me?
dickens|Mind!
dickens|I felt here, through a tingling in my blood, that if Mr Drummles shoulder had claimed another hairs breadth of room, I should have jerked him into the window; equally, that if my own shoulder had urged a similar claim, Mr Drummle would have jerked me into the nearest box.
austen|poor fellow!
austen|It was a melancholy change; and Emma could not but sigh over it, and wish for impossible things, till her father awoke, and made it necessary to be cheerful.
dickens|This isa visitor of mine.
dickens|We had stopped near the centre of the long table, and Miss Havisham, with one of her withered arms stretched out of the chair, rested that clenched hand upon the yellow cloth.
austen|If one thinks of all that it has to do, and all that it does so well, it is really astonishing!
dickens|I was going to say a word or two, Handel, concerning my father and my fathers son.
dickens|Do you often go to see him  Shave?
austen|I believe I have been very rude; but really Miss Fairfax has done her hair in so odd a wayso very odd a waythat I cannot keep my eyes from her.
dickens|That I had a fever and was avoided, that I suffered greatly, that I often lost my reason, that the time seemed interminable, that I confounded impossible existences with my own identity; that I was a brick in the housewall, and yet entreating to be released from the giddy place where the builders had set me; that I was a steel beam of a vast engine, clashing and whirling over a gulf, and yet that I implored in my own person to have the engine stopped, and my part in it hammered off; that I passed through these phases of disease, I know of my own remembrance, and did in some sort know at the time.
dickens|William, said Mr Pumblechook to the waiter, put a muffin on table.
austen|Bear with the truths I would tell you now, dearest Emma, as well as you have borne with them.
austen|Yet he is such a man!
dickens|Then, it faltered, as if much surprised, and uttered my name, and I cried out,  Estella!
austen|Oh!
dickens|Good night!
dickens|Twenty pounds, of course.
dickens|Every mans business, said Wemmick, rather reproachfully towards me, is portable property.
dickens|Almost at the same moment, the bell of the great gate rang again, and a loud noise of feet and voices came pouring into the courtyard.
austen|No, no, thats tomorrow; and I particularly wanted to see Knightley today on that very account.
austen|Miss Darcy, the daughter of Mr Darcy, of Pemberley, and Lady Anne, could not have appeared with propriety in a different manner.
austen|Poor Miss Bates may very likely have committed her niece and hurried her into a greater appearance of intimacy than her own good sense would have dictated, in spite of the very natural wish of a little change.
austen|The quiet, heartfelt satisfaction of the old lady, and the rapturous delight of her daughterwho proved even too joyous to talk as usual, had been a gratifying, yet almost an affecting, scene.
austen|They were, therefore, to go.
austen|But poor Mrs Bates had a bad cold about a month ago.
dickens|and he followed into a large dark room, at a distance.
austen|Her influence would have been enough.
dickens|Come!
dickens|I am deeply happy in the love that Heaven has so blessedmy love for Charles, and Charless love for me.
austen|How much sooner one tires of anything than of a book!
dickens|From his oppressed slumber, Young Jerry in his closet was awakened after daybreak and before sunrise, by the presence of his father in the family room.
dickens|Bless you, it were only necessary to get it well round in a mans mind, to be certain on it.
dickens|said Miss Havisham.
austen|Oh!
austen|When they had nothing else to say, it must be always easy to begin abusing Miss Woodhouse; and the enmity which they dared not shew in open disrespect to her, found a broader vent in contemptuous treatment of Harriet.
austen|You like it, my Emma, as little as I feared.
dickens|First, he put his hand in his coat, and took another paper from it, that is the certificate which enables me to pass out of this city.
dickens|I was at that time in our French House, and had beenoh!
dickens|You look dumbfoundered?
austen|noI would get you a better partner than myself.
austen|You do not think I care about Mr Frank Churchill.
dickens|I think Miss Pocket was conscious that the sight of me involved her in the danger of being goaded to madness, and perhaps tearing off her cap,which was a very hideous one, in the nature of a muslin mop,and strewing the ground with her hair,which assuredly had never grown on her head.
austen|They went in; and while the sleek, welltied parcels of Mens Beavers  and York Tan were bringing down and displaying on the counter, he saidBut I beg your pardon, Miss Woodhouse, you were speaking to me, you were saying something at the very moment of this burst of my amor patriae.
austen|That is a degree of placidity, which I can neither comprehend nor respect.
austen|Thats right, my dear, very right.
austen|I think Mr John Knightley very far from looking well.
austen|Well, what do you say to it?
austen|He bore it, however, with admirable calmness.
austen|Elizabeth received her congratulations amongst the rest, and then, sick of this folly, took refuge in her own room, that she might think with freedom.
austen|My mother says the orchard was always famous in her younger days.
austen|She is the most beautiful creature I ever beheld!
dickens|No.
austen|For, though your accusations were illfounded, formed on mistaken premises, my behaviour to you at the time had merited the severest reproof.
dickens|Even when golden hair, like her own, lay in a halo on a pillow round the worn face of a little boy, and he said, with a radiant smile, Dear papa and mamma, I am very sorry to leave you both, and to leave my pretty sister; but I am called, and I must go!
dickens|I have no hurt but in this throbbing arm.
austen|He has a great regard for the Bateses, you know, independent of Jane Fairfaxand is always glad to shew them attention.
dickens|As the gloves were white kid gloves, and as the postoffice was widened to its utmost extent, I now began to have my strong suspicions.
dickens|oh!
dickens|Hush!
dickens|Mr Lorrys spirits grew heavier and heavier, as he and his two companions ascended higher and higher.
dickens|Your afflicted,  Gabelle.
austen|I feel a strong persuasion, this morning, that I shall soon be abroad.
austen|Emma heard the sad truth with fortitude.
dickens|Which, you see, Pip, said Joe, pausing in his meditative raking of the fire, and looking at me, were a drawback on my learning.
austen|What am I to do?
dickens|If I had had ample time for consideration, I believe I should still have gone.
dickens|Stay there, if you please, a little moment.
austen|From the further disadvantage of Lydias society she was of course carefully kept, and though Mrs Wickham frequently invited her to come and stay with her, with the promise of balls and young men, her father would never consent to her going.
austen|Every day added something to their knowledge of the officers names and connections.
austen|Mrs Eltons invitations I should have imagined any thing but inviting.
austen|And if poor little Anna Weston is to be spoiled, it will be the greatest humanity in you to do as much for her as you have done for me, except falling in love with her when she is thirteen.
dickens|It is only a question of a few hours.
dickens|She was there, sitting beside her father.
dickens|You speak faintly.
austen|cried Mr Weston, about Perry and a carriage?
austen|When I talked of your being altered by time, by the progress of years,  said John Knightley, I meant to imply the change of situation which time usually brings.
dickens|It was some broken wittlesthats what it wasand a dram of liquor, and a pie.
dickens|It was not necessary to explain everywhere that I had come into a handsome property; but whenever I said anything to that effect, it followed that the officiating tradesman ceased to have his attention diverted through the window by the High Street, and concentrated his mind upon me.
austen|We must look to her one fault, and remember that she had done a wrong thing in consenting to the engagement, to bear that she should have been in such a state of punishment.
dickens|What did you look at, so fixedly?
austen|Emma could not doubt.
dickens|Just now.
dickens|The idea!
austen|The move began; and Miss Bates might be heard from that moment, without interruption, till her being seated at table and taking up her spoon.
dickens|How are you, and what can I do for you?
austen|I have no objections at all to meeting the Hartfield family.
austen|Could she exert herself, it would be better; but this is not to be expected.
austen|Yet now I must believe you, cried Jane.
austen|The next thing wanted was to get the picture framed; and here were a few difficulties.
dickens|Who is it?
dickens|Whether it was alive.
austen|It did her no service however.
dickens|Your deeds got into extemporised strongrooms made of kitchens and sculleries, and fretted all the fat out of their parchments into the bankinghouse air.
austen|Your friend performs delightfully, he continued after a pause, on seeing Bingley join the group; and I doubt not that you are an adept in the science yourself, Mr Darcy.
austen|But I know the foundation is unjust.
austen|It was hardly enough; but it pleased her.
dickens|And that same man, remember, pursued the gentleman, throwing his finger at Mr Wopsle heavily,that same man might be summoned as a juryman upon this very trial, and, having thus deeply committed himself, might return to the bosom of his family and lay his head upon his pillow, after deliberately swearing that he would well and truly try the issue joined between Our Sovereign Lord the King and the prisoner at the bar, and would a true verdict give according to the evidence, so help him God!
dickens|From the first, I had anxiously considered what I ought to do.
austen|She loves him then excessively, I suppose.
dickens|If, when I hint to you of a Home that is before us, where I will be true to you with all my duty and with all my faithful service, I bring back the remembrance of a Home long desolate, while your poor heart pined away, weep for it, weep for it!
dickens|Disguised, but the same man.
dickens|Mr Jaggers was at his desk, but, seeing me enter, got up immediately and stood before his fire.
dickens|Then it must be a shilling, observed the coachman.
austen|Send back your answer as fast as you can, and be careful to write explicitly.
dickens|Oh!
dickens|Not in regular government pay and employment, to lay traps?
austen|Miss Batess powerful, argumentative mind might have strengthened yours.
austen|She had not been many hours at home before she found that the Brighton scheme, of which Lydia had given them a hint at the inn, was under frequent discussion between her parents.
austen|And what am I to do on the occasion?
dickens|Our time of starting from the Cross Keys was two oclock.
austen|It was most unlikely, therefore, that he should ever want his fathers assistance.
dickens|Herbert bent forward to look at me more nearly, as if my reply had been rather more hurried or more eager than he could quite account for.
austen|You, Miss Woodhouse, I well know, play delightfully.
dickens|Shall we terminate our conference for the night?
dickens|If it was a light answer, returned Darnay, I beg your forgiveness for it.
dickens|I have had occasion to notice many hands; but I never saw stronger in that respect, mans or womans, than these.
austen|Towards him I have been kinder than towards myself.
dickens|I went to Garden Court to find you; not finding you, I went to Clarrikers to find Mr Herbert.
austen|I knew it myself, as it was known to Miss Bingley; but her brother is even yet ignorant of it.
dickens|As I declined the proposal on the plea of an appointment, he was so good as to take me into a yard and show me where the gallows was kept, and also where people were publicly whipped, and then he showed me the Debtors Door, out of which culprits came to be hanged; heightening the interest of that dreadful portal by giving me to understand that four on em  would come out at that door the day after tomorrow at eight in the morning, to be killed in a row.
dickens|But, it was bound too tight for that.
austen|He was always to have gone on Saturday, and to Saturday he meant to stay.
austen|I know you will contrive it all.
dickens|To whom do I address it?
austen|Though Lydia had never been a favourite with them, Mr and Mrs Gardiner could not but be deeply afflicted.
dickens|It was done.
dickens|You are right, Jacques, was the response of Monsieur Defarge.
austen|I have not an ideaI cannot guess it in the least.
dickens|cried my sister, with a clap of her hands and a scream together,which was her next stage.
dickens|mused Mr Pumblechook, aloud.
austen|But she is so amusing, so extremely amusing!
dickens|Your clemency, Monseigneur!
austen|noI am grieved to findI was on the point of telling you that when I called at Mrs Goddards door, which I did the very last thing before I returned to dress, I was told that Miss Smith was not better, by no means better, rather worse.
austen|The doors of the two rooms were just opposite each other.
austen|Is it necessary for me to use any roundabout phrase?
dickens|O mother of God, this Foulon!
dickens|He shivered all the while so violently, that it was quite as much as he could do to keep the neck of the bottle between his teeth, without biting it off.
dickens|These were to the full as interested in the place, however, as if they could have commanded whole barrels of wine; and they glided from seat to seat, and from corner to corner, swallowing talk in lieu of drink, with greedy looks.
dickens|Listen to him!
austen|But in time they will.
dickens|There is no harm at all done.
austen|She longed to inquire of the housekeeper whether her master was really absent, but had not the courage for it.
dickens|He put her gently from him, and looked at her unconscious mother.
dickens|Lucie, I recall these old troubles in the reason that I have tonight for loving you better than words can tell, and thanking God for my great happiness.
austen|The course of true love never did run smooth  A Hartfield edition of Shakespeare would have a long note on that passage.
austen|She must own that she was tired of seeing great houses; after going over so many, she really had no pleasure in fine carpets or satin curtains.
dickens|They are very slight, poor thing.
austen|Till this morning, we have not once met since the day of reconciliation.
dickens|Do this look like a forge?
austen|She believed every body found his manners pleasing.
dickens|He had great confidence in my opinion, and what did I think?
austen|She must communicate the painful truth, however, and as soon as possible.
dickens|He had a pipe in his mouth, and he took it out, and, after slowly blowing all his smoke away and looking hard at me all the time, nodded.
dickens|I wish you would forget it.
dickens|It would all come out in good time, I observed, and in the meanwhile nothing was to be said, save that I had come into great expectations from a mysterious patron.
dickens|I am glad to have your approbation, gentlemen, said Mr Waldengarver, with an air of dignity, in spite of his being ground against the wall at the time, and holding on by the seat of the chair.
dickens|It is still Monday night.
austen|All looked up to them.
austen|Lady Catherine was extremely indignant on the marriage of her nephew; and as she gave way to all the genuine frankness of her character in her reply to the letter which announced its arrangement, she sent him language so very abusive, especially of Elizabeth, that for some time all intercourse was at an end.
dickens|By that time it wanted but ten minutes of one oclock, and we began to look out for her smoke.
austen|Absolutely insufferable!
dickens|How have I done what I have done?
austen|Mr Eltons engagement had been the cure of the agitation of meeting Mr Martin.
dickens|The altercation was conducted in a low tone of voice, and terminated in the honest tradesmans kicking off his claysoiled boots, and lying down at his length on the floor.
austen|He is a man whom I cannot presume to praise.
dickens|said Joe, astounded.
austen|Thats quite unnecessary; I see Jane every daybut as you like.
austen|I have been so grieved for you.
austen|noit is not for me to be driven away by Mr Darcy.
dickens|asked Mr Lorry.
austen|I think I have heard you say that you know them.
austen|Happiness in marriage is entirely a matter of chance.
austen|my dear brother, replied Mrs Bennet, that is exactly what I could most wish for.
dickens|For a few moments there was a pause, and a hurry, and a murmur, and the unintelligible sound of his voice; and then Mr Lorry saw him, surrounded by all, and in the midst of a line of twenty men long, all linked shoulder to shoulder, and hand to shoulder, hurried out with cries ofLive the Bastille prisoner!
austen|I dislike it very much, he replied; but it must be done.
austen|Well, a little while ago it occurred to me how very sad it would be to have Jane Fairfax walking home again, late at night, and cold as the nights are now.
dickens|His men resumed their muskets and fell in.
austen|I am sure we owe him no such particular civility as to be obliged to say nothing he may not like to hear.
austen|We have appledumplings, however, very often.
dickens|This led me to speculate whether any of them ever tumbled down, and then I fancied that I felt light falls on my face,a disagreeable turn of thought, suggesting other and more objectionable approaches up my back.
austen|These are home questionsand perhaps I cannot say that I have experienced many hardships of that nature.
dickens|Which gate did you come to?
austen|The Longbourn party were the last of all the company to depart, and, by a manoeuvre of Mrs Bennet, had to wait for their carriage a quarter of an hour after everybody else was gone, which gave them time to see how heartily they were wished away by some of the family.
dickens|And you were cut out for a bachelor, pursued Miss Pross, before you were put in your cradle.
dickens|And the first danger passed!
austen|No, no, you shall not deceive me.
dickens|But, he spoke, and it was his voice; he took the prisoners hand, and it was his real grasp.
dickens|There may be many more, for all that he can say, but he knows of one.
austen|One does not, you know, after a time.
austen|Mrs Elton had most kindly sent Jane a note, or we should have been.
dickens|One prisoner there was, he said, who had been discharged into the street free, but at whom a mistaken savage had thrust a pike as he passed out.
austen|He seemed astonished too on finding her alone, and apologised for his intrusion by letting her know that he had understood all the ladies were to be within.
dickens|Please take it away.
austen|I like her the better for it.
austen|I walk fast.
dickens|In saying this, I relieved my mind of what had always been there, more or less, though no doubt most since yesterday.
dickens|He professed himself more relieved and encouraged than he really was, and approached his second and last point.
dickens|Blacksmith, eh?
dickens|And so on.
dickens|She heard me, and ran in.
dickens|Seeing him, I felt that I was in a dangerous strait indeed, and I kept my eyes upon him.
austen|Every body had a degree of gravity and sorrow; tenderness towards the departed, solicitude for the surviving friends; and, in a reasonable time, curiosity to know where she would be buried.
austen|Lord!
dickens|she retorted, with a smile.
dickens|He doesnt know me, and is making shoes!
austen|You both did as much as you could in planning the marriage.
dickens|Ah!
dickens|Thats right, thats right.
dickens|But Arthur soon settled the account.
dickens|When this same Matthew was mentioned, Miss Havisham stopped me and herself, and stood looking at the speaker.
dickens|You must taste, said my sister, addressing the guests with her best graceyou must taste, to finish with, such a delightful and delicious present of Uncle Pumblechooks!
austen|my dear, we cannot begin too early; you are not aware of the difficulty of procuring exactly the desirable thing.
dickens|Touch me.
dickens|Now, do it look like it?
dickens|I carry about me, not a scrap of writing openly referring to it.
austen|Mrs Dixon!
dickens|The chateau burned; the nearest trees, laid hold of by the fire, scorched and shrivelled; trees at a distance, fired by the four fierce figures, begirt the blazing edifice with a new forest of smoke.
dickens|Yes, yes, said I, I can walk.
dickens|Nor is this your tradingplace, said I.
dickens|No!
austen|She can have no idea of the pain she gives me by her continual reflections on him.
austen|When the gentlemen had joined them, and tea was over, the cardtables were placed.
dickens|There was one among them, the appearance of a lady dressed in black, who was leaning in the embrasure of a window, and she had a light shining upon her golden hair, and she looked like     Let us ride on again, for Gods sake, through the illuminated villages with the people all awake!
dickens|Yes, he said; at different times of the night, three.
austen|Their manners are not equal to his.
austen|Mr Knightley, who had nothing of ceremony about him, was offering by his short, decided answers, an amusing contrast to the protracted apologies and civil hesitations of the other.
austen|Nobody wants him to come.
dickens|Chateau and hut, stone face and dangling figure, the red stain on the stone floor, and the pure water in the village wellthousands of acres of landa whole province of Franceall France itselflay under the night sky, concentrated into a faint hairbreadth line.
dickens|Here, a burst of tears.
dickens|When passed?
dickens|Pip.
dickens|I dont mean in the village only, but up town?
austen|A few minutes made Emma acquainted with the whole.
austen|She had no doubt of what Mr Weston was often thinking about.
dickens|It was my way, I suppose.
dickens|Then I looked at my watch, and, finding that it was past nine, called again, Is there any one here?
austen|How near it may be to mine, I cannot pretend to say.
dickens|Which I meantersay the government of you and myself.
austen|Now you must be satisfiedOur own dear Mrs Weston, who is carefulness itself.
austen|so tall!
dickens|As he was fast making jam of his fruit by wrestling with the door while the paperbags were under his arms, I begged him to allow me to hold them.
austen|When the teathings were removed, and the cardtables placed, the ladies all rose, and Elizabeth was then hoping to be soon joined by him, when all her views were overthrown by seeing him fall a victim to her mothers rapacity for whist players, and in a few moments after seated with the rest of the party.
austen|You may say what you chusebut your countenance testifies that your thoughts on this subject are very much like mine.
dickens|On the other hand, Trabbs boy might worm himself into his intimacy and tell him things; or, reckless and desperate wretch as I knew he could be, might hoot him in the High Street.
dickens|The dreadful condition to which he was brought, was so appalling to both of us, that we could not refer to it in plainer words.
austen|Anne would have been a delightful performer, had her health allowed her to learn.
dickens|But she neither asked me where I had been, nor why I had kept her waiting; and there was a bright flush upon her face, as though something had happened to delight her.
austen|He was in high spirits; as ready to talk and laugh as ever, and seemed delighted to speak of his former visit, and recur to old stories and he was not without agitation.
dickens|It lasted about five days.
austen|I certainly must, said she.
austen|Forcing herself to speak, therefore, in the hope of putting it by, she calmly said,  You are quite in the right; it was most natural to pay your visit, then  He was silent.
dickens|Almost as soon as he had spoken, a portly upright man whom I can see now, as I write in a wellworn olivecolored frockcoat, with a peculiar pallor overspreading the red in his complexion, and eyes that went wandering about when he tried to fix them, came up to a corner of the bars, and put his hand to his hatwhich had a greasy and fatty surface like cold brothwith a halfserious and halfjocose military salute.
austen|Emma smiled, and felt that Mr Weston had very good reason for saying so.
dickens|To which he replied, Ah!
dickens|I demand no more than the opportunity to do so without delay.
austen|It was a commission to touch every favourite feeling.
austen|It was all the service she could now render her poor friend; for as to any of that heroism of sentiment which might have prompted her to entreat him to transfer his affection from herself to Harriet, as infinitely the most worthy of the twoor even the more simple sublimity of resolving to refuse him at once and for ever, without vouchsafing any motive, because he could not marry them both, Emma had it not.
austen|No, the young lady, to be sure.
austen|At present I will not say more; but, perhaps, when we are better acquainted  He was interrupted by a summons to dinner; and the girls smiled on each other.
austen|It is not likely that money should be very abundant on either side; and it might strike them that they could be more economically, though less expeditiously, married in London than in Scotland.
dickens|No objection was made to my getting close to the dock, on the outside of it, and holding the hand that he stretched forth to me.
dickens|unless I can lead a very different sort of life from the life I lead now.
austen|Excuse me, said Jane earnestly, I cannot by any means consent to such an arrangement, so needlessly troublesome to your servant.
dickens|It was but a day gone, and Joe had brought the tears into my eyes; they had soon dried, God forgive me!
dickens|To have struggled with him in the street, or to have exacted any lower recompense from him than his hearts best blood, would have been futile and degrading.
dickens|repeated Mr Stryver, coldly.
austen|Were she your equal in situationbut, Emma, consider how far this is from being the case.
austen|Well, and so we breakfasted at ten as usual; I thought it would never be over; for, by the bye, you are to understand, that my uncle and aunt were horrid unpleasant all the time I was with them.
austen|And nobody knew at all which way he was gone.
dickens|Estellas name.
dickens|Neither did the people say anything; after the first cry, they had been silent, and they remained so.
dickens|And he was, therefore, as little surprised as a man could be, to find himself awakened at the small inn to which he had been remitted until morning, in the middle of the night.
dickens|That is what you are not to ask me.
dickens|He caught me, drew me to the sofa, put me up against the cushions, and bent on one knee before me, bringing the face that I now well remembered, and that I shuddered at, very near to mine.
austen|It is so, indeed, continued Mr Knightley; I have it from Robert Martin himself.
austen|I did not mean, I was not thinking of the slavetrade, replied Jane; governesstrade, I assure you, was all that I had in view; widely different certainly as to the guilt of those who carry it on; but as to the greater misery of the victims, I do not know where it lies.
austen|They did as they were desired; and by the time she judged it reasonable to have done with her boot, she had the comfort of farther delay in her power, being overtaken by a child from the cottage, setting out, according to orders, with her pitcher, to fetch broth from Hartfield.
dickens|The resemblance between him and Lucie was very strong at such times, and as they sat side by side, she leaning on his shoulder, and he resting his arm on the back of her chair, it was very agreeable to trace the likeness.
dickens|said Wemmick, getting upon a chair, and blowing the dust off the horrible heads before bringing them down.
dickens|All that you have given me, is at your command to have again.
dickens|Never questioning for a moment that the house was now empty, I looked in at another window, and found myself, to my great surprise, exchanging a broad stare with a pale young gentleman with red eyelids and light hair.
dickens|I had heard of her as leading a most unhappy life, and as being separated from her husband, who had used her with great cruelty, and who had become quite renowned as a compound of pride, avarice, brutality, and meanness.
austen|Oh!
dickens|Here I am, sir!
dickens|Ill beat the shivers so far, Ill bet you.
austen|I have not always known their writing apart.
dickens|said Mr Waldengarver, almost, if not quite, with patronage.
austen|For some time she was amused, without thinking beyond the immediate cause; but as she came to understand the family better, other feelings arose.
dickens|It was Stryvers grand peculiarity that he always seemed too big for any place, or space.
dickens|What was that?
austen|She had been satisfied to hear and believe just what Mrs Goddard chose to tell her; and looked no farther.
dickens|I sat silent, recalling what a drudge she had been until Mr Wopsles greataunt successfully overcame that bad habit of living, so highly desirable to be got rid of by some people.
austen|As long as Mr Knightley remained with them, Emmas fever continued; but when he was gone, she began to be a little tranquillised and subduedand in the course of the sleepless night, which was the tax for such an evening, she found one or two such very serious points to consider, as made her feel, that even her happiness must have some alloy.
dickens|She put her needless candle in the shadow at a distance, crept up to his bed, and put her lips to his; then, leaned over him, and looked at him.
austen|He had turned away, and the horses were in motion.
austen|I can see nothing at all extraordinary in him now.
dickens|You are wet, and you look weary.
austen|One enjoyment was certainthat of suitableness of companions; a suitableness which comprehended health and temper to bear inconveniencescheerfulness to enhance every pleasureand affection and intelligence, which might supply it among themselves if there were disappointments abroad.
austen|I beg your pardon, I will try again.
austen|He begins with congratulations on the approaching nuptials of my eldest daughter, of which, it seems, he has been told by some of the goodnatured, gossiping Lucases.
dickens|Am I to wait in the court, sir?
dickens|cried Joe, falling back in the greatest amazement.
austen|To those who had no resources it was a different thing; but my resources made me quite independent.
dickens|If it had been otherwise Carton looked at the pen and saw it was trailing off into unintelligible signs.
dickens|The escort were two mounted patriots in red caps and tricoloured cockades, armed with national muskets and sabres, who rode one on either side of him.
dickens|Frantic acclamations were again raised.
austen|What made you so shy of me, when you first called, and afterwards dined here?
austen|My dear Jane, say no more about it.
austen|I shall not be far off, if you want me.
dickens|If youre a religious woman, give me a irreligious one!
austen|I would much rather have been merry than wise.
austen|Mr Weston would not be blind to folly, though in his own son; but he is very likely to have a more yielding, complying, mild disposition than would suit your notions of mans perfection.
dickens|I think not.
austen|It is a sort of thing, cried Mrs Elton emphatically, which I should not have thought myself privileged to inquire into.
austen|Oh!
austen|Nearly three weeks.
dickens|I looked at Joe, making the motion with my lips and eyebrows, She?
austen|The character of Mrs Churchill, the grief of her husbandher mind glanced over them both with awe and compassionand then rested with lightened feelings on how Frank might be affected by the event, how benefited, how freed.
austen|He was a great deal too full of the market to think of any thing elsewhich is just as it should be, for a thriving man.
austen|Yes, he went on Tuesday, as I wrote you word.
dickens|the guard replied.
austen|Some very fine morning, he, and Emma, and Harriet, could go very well; and he could sit still with Mrs Weston, while the dear girls walked about the gardens.
dickens|Remember these words tomorrow change the course, or delay in itfor any reasonand no life can possibly be saved, and many lives must inevitably be sacrificed.
austen|A dinner there must be.
dickens|Thirdly.
dickens|Then, he gently let it sink upon his breast again, with his own hands lying on it.
austen|You will find how very much he suffers.
dickens|Heaven is my witness that I love her!
austen|Mr Churchill, independent of his wife, was feared by nobody; an easy, guidable man, to be persuaded into any thing by his nephew.
dickens|Now look here my man, said Mr Jaggers, advancing a step, and pointing to the door.
austen|Why could not they go on as they had done?
austen|But, Harriet, is it necessary to burn the courtplaister?
dickens|I shall think of it with a melancholy satisfaction when I wake up in the night.
dickens|Dear Magwitch, I must tell you now, at last.
dickens|The chateau is on fire; valuable objects may be saved from the flames by timely aid!
dickens|I thought of her having said, Matthew will come and see me at last when I am laid dead upon that table; and I asked Herbert whether his father was so inveterate against her?
dickens|When we had played some halfdozen games, a day was appointed for my return, and I was taken down into the yard to be fed in the former doglike manner.
dickens|My inn had once been a part of an ancient ecclesiastical house, and I dined in a little octagonal commonroom, like a font.
austen|I must confess that he did not speak so well of Wickham as he formerly did.
dickens|Its a bad job, said Wemmick, scratching his head, and I assure you I havent been so cut up for a long time.
dickens|Then I put the fastenings as I had found them, opened the door at which I had entered when I ran home last night, shut it, and ran for the misty marshes.
dickens|I have often thought him since, like the steamhammer that can crush a man or pat an eggshell, in his combination of strength with gentleness.
dickens|P.
austen|Brother and sister!
austen|He has made me so happy, said she, one evening, by telling me that he was totally ignorant of my being in town last spring!
dickens|I didnt know how I had done it, but I had no doubt I had murdered him somehow.
dickens|And thus, in the gloom and death of the night, we stared at one another.
dickens|Miss Havisham, with her head in her hands, sat making a low moaning, and swaying herself on her chair, but gave no answer.
austen|And so, Darcy did every thing; made up the match, gave the money, paid the fellows debts, and got him his commission!
dickens|It scarcely sounded flattering, but I knew she meant well.
austen|I consider it as one of the first refinements of polished society.
austen|It was rather too late in the day to set about being simpleminded and ignorant; but she left her with every previous resolution confirmed of being humble and discreet, and repressing imagination all the rest of her life.
dickens|They put him into a great chair they had among them, and which they had taken either out of the Court itself, or one of its rooms or passages.
dickens|Sheep was a cant word of the time for a spy, under the gaolers.
austen|Had it taken place only once a year, it would have been a grievance.
dickens|They had no doubt that Miss Havisham would do something  for me; their doubts related to the form that something would take.
dickens|Ill have my head took off, if he was ever in it.
dickens|Tst!
dickens|Arter you was took ill, pretty much about what you might call if you was put to it a week, said Joe; still determined, on my account, to come at everything by degrees.
dickens|I repeated the medicines I had given her, and I sat at the side of the bed until the night was far advanced.
dickens|I have looked at her when it has been such torture to me to think of her shining upon what I had lost, that I have beaten my head against my prisonwalls.
dickens|Her manner was more winning than she had cared to let it be to me before, and I thought I saw Miss Havishams influence in the change.
austen|Emma was extremely confused.
austen|Yes; but we must not rest our claims on that distinction.
dickens|For the love of Heaven, of justice, of generosity, of the honour of your noble name!
dickens|How do I know it, Handel?
dickens|No; I have seen him there, since we have been walking here.
dickens|I have had unformed ideas of striving afresh, beginning anew, shaking off sloth and sensuality, and fighting out the abandoned fight.
dickens|Miss Havishams gray hair was all adrift upon the ground, among the other bridal wrecks, and was a miserable sight to see.
austen|He had done all this for a girl whom he could neither regard nor esteem.
dickens|Not dead, said I; but like to die.
austen|Who would have thought of my meeting with, perhaps, a nephew of Lady Catherine de Bourgh in this assembly!
austen|Bad enough as it is, for I absolutely neglect them both to an unpardonable degree.
dickens|I said I had been down to hear the Carols.
dickens|When he came to the low church wall, he got over it, like a man whose legs were numbed and stiff, and then turned round to look for me.
austen|But Harriet rejected the suspicion with spirit.
dickens|Or what?
dickens|I dont suffer it to be spoken of.
austen|She watched him whenever they were at Rosings, and whenever he came to Hunsford; but without much success.
austen|It was dated from Rosings, at eight oclock in the morning, and was as follows  Be not alarmed, madam, on receiving this letter, by the apprehension of its containing any repetition of those sentiments or renewal of those offers which were last night so disgusting to you.
dickens|Miss Havisham gives you to him, as the greatest slight and injury that could be done to the many far better men who admire you, and to the few who truly love you.
austen|I can see nobody, said she; and up she got, and would go away; and that was what made us keep you waitingand extremely sorry and ashamed we were.
austen|It certainly was very extraordinary!
dickens|Her forehead had been strikingly expressive of an engrossing terror and compassion that saw nothing but the peril of the accused.
dickens|When we went downstairs again, Wemmick led me into my guardians room, and said, This youve seen already.
austen|you amuse me excessively.
austen|They all united; and, on reaching Hartfield gates, Emma, who knew it was exactly the sort of visiting that would be welcome to her father, pressed them all to go in and drink tea with him.
dickens|They did.
austen|Ah!
dickens|You are not a shoemaker by trade?
austen|Her sensibilities, I suspect, are strongand her temper excellent in its power of forbearance, patience, selfcontrol; but it wants openness.
austen|It made her animatedopen heartedshe voluntarily said;  Oh!
dickens|He looked across at me, and his eye appraised my watchchain, and then he incidentally spat and said something to the other convict, and they laughed and slued themselves round with a clink of their coupling manacle, and looked at something else.
dickens|Three or four times I feebly thought I would start conversation; but whenever he saw me going to ask him anything, he looked at me with his glass in his hand, and rolling his wine about in his mouth, as if requesting me to take notice that it was of no use, for he couldnt answer.
dickens|And hallo you!
dickens|He had broken two ribs, they had wounded one of his lungs, and he breathed with great pain and difficulty, which increased daily.
austen|It was all over before I arrived; so my curiosity was not so dreadfully racked as yours seems to have been.
dickens|Tst!
dickens|After I had turned the worst point of my illness, I began to notice that while all its other features changed, this one consistent feature did not change.
austen|Oh!
austen|no, said he; it would be the extreme of imprudence.
austen|Miss Bates should never againno, never!
austen|Her tour to the Lakes was now the object of her happiest thoughts; it was her best consolation for all the uncomfortable hours which the discontentedness of her mother and Kitty made inevitable; and could she have included Jane in the scheme, every part of it would have been perfect.
austen|But he is a liberal master, I suppose, and that in the eye of a servant comprehends every virtue.
dickens|Byandbye, they went into the house.
dickens|O me, O me!
dickens|The subject was a suggestive one to me, and I thought about it in silence.
austen|Oh!
austen|She will make him a very proper wife.
dickens|I consented, and he was fervent, and then sat down again.
austen|Nobody could be so imprudent!
austen|Miss Fairfax, who had seldom spoken before, except among her own confederates, spoke now.
austen|I do congratulate you, Mrs Weston, most warmly.
austen|You had better neglect your relations than run the risk of offending your patroness.
dickens|By good fortune she had a veil on her bonnet, or she could hardly have gone along the streets without being stopped.
dickens|she said.
dickens|After the acquittal she disappeared, and thus he lost the child and the childs mother.
dickens|You can break his heart.
austen|It was the end of an old pencil,the part without any lead.
dickens|I signified that I had no doubt he would take it as an honor to be asked.
dickens|What did he call me, with my husband standing by?
dickens|The way shall be prepared for you, and you can see his son first, who is in London.
dickens|He knows that a woodsawyer, living by the prison wall, is under the control of the Defarges, and has been rehearsed by Madame Defarge as to his having seen Herhe never mentioned Lucies namemaking signs and signals to prisoners.
dickens|For, in these times, as the mender of roads worked, solitary, in the dust, not often troubling himself to reflect that dust he was and to dust he must return, being for the most part too much occupied in thinking how little he had for supper and how much more he would eat if he had itin these times, as he raised his eyes from his lonely labour, and viewed the prospect, he would see some rough figure approaching on foot, the like of which was once a rarity in those parts, but was now a frequent presence.
dickens|Not an emigrant, he hoped, within the sense and spirit of the law.
dickens|she went on; you have a promising career before you.
austen|They have none of them much to recommend them, replied he; they are all silly and ignorant like other girls; but Lizzy has something more of quickness than her sisters.
dickens|Moreover, he was a boy whom no man could hurt; an invulnerable and dodging serpent who, when chased into a corner, flew out again between his captors legs, scornfully yelping.
dickens|I am not a shoemaker by trade?
dickens|No, said he; not till it got about that there was no protection on the premises, and it come to be considered dangerous, with convicts and Tag and Rag and Bobtail going up and down.
dickens|He had taken it up, and was stooping to work again, when his eyes caught the skirt of her dress.
dickens|If now considered in the light of a liberty, excuse it for the love of poor old days.
austen|She did not always feel so absolutely satisfied with herself, so entirely convinced that her opinions were right and her adversarys wrong, as Mr Knightley.
austen|the proper sport of boys and girls, but a single woman, of good fortune, is always respectable, and may be as sensible and pleasant as any body else.
dickens|Mr Pumblechook repeated.
austen|Is not this room rich in specimens of your landscapes and flowers; and has not Mrs Weston some inimitable figurepieces in her drawingroom, at Randalls?
austen|A young man, such as you describe Mr Bingley, so easily falls in love with a pretty girl for a few weeks, and when accident separates them, so easily forgets her, that these sort of inconsistencies are very frequent.
dickens|Which is the man?
dickens|Well, then, said he, Im jiggered if I dont see you home!
dickens|This is Mamselle!
austen|who attended to you?
dickens|Then, he blessed me and stood waving his hand to me until I had passed the crook in the road; and then I turned into a field and had a long nap under a hedge before I pursued my way home.
austen|NoI cannot talk of books in a ballroom; my head is always full of something else.
dickens|Is he fit for the journey?
dickens|Lucie should be spared the pain of separation; and her father, always reluctant to turn his thoughts towards the dangerous ground of old, should come to the knowledge of the step, as a step taken, and not in the balance of suspense and doubt.
austen|Her youth had passed without distinction, and her middle of life was devoted to the care of a failing mother, and the endeavour to make a small income go as far as possible.
austen|you are prettily shod for walking home, I dare say.
dickens|Put the case that a woman, under such circumstances as you have mentioned, held her child concealed, and was obliged to communicate the fact to her legal adviser, on his representing to her that he must know, with an eye to the latitude of his defence, how the fact stood about that child.
dickens|The drums was the only voice in Saint Antoine that blood and hurry had not changed.
dickens|At halfpast nine, gentlemen, said he, we must break up.
dickens|He guided himself by it, no doubt.
dickens|Whose voice was that?
dickens|Becoming alarmed, I entreated Mr Wopsle to explain his meaning.
austen|He is the very best young manBut, my dear Jane, if you remember, I told you yesterday he was precisely the height of Mr Perry.
dickens|Not ill.
dickens|Said to have been a girl.
dickens|He hardly thought youd come so soon, Mr Wemmick explained.
dickens|The arm of the golden giant in the hall was not more steady than he was, when he stopped under it to remark to them that he was not yet proof against slight surprises if he ever would be, and that the rain had startled him.
dickens|I bought them.
dickens|Yet such things were.
dickens|It shall be done!
austen|It is such a blessing!
dickens|Herbert called out as we started.
dickens|She would have some fair reason for looking down upon me, I thought, if she saw me frightened; and she would have no fair reason.
dickens|Herbert got up, and linked his arm in mine, and we slowly walked to and fro together, studying the carpet.
dickens|He made her another bow.
austen|The wedding took place; the bride and bridegroom set off for Kent from the church door, and everybody had as much to say, or to hear, on the subject as usual.
austen|It will not be so great a loss of time but if you dislike it  Not at all.
dickens|He could not tell me that; he saw me, and over my shoulder he saw the man.
austen|He had done his duty and could return to his son.
dickens|A suspended interest and a prevalent absence of mind, were perhaps observed by the spies who looked in at the wineshop, as they looked in at every place, high and low, from the kings palace to the criminals gaol.
austen|The Lucases are very artful people indeed, sister.
austen|Mr Hurst looked at her with astonishment.
dickens|And I couldnt be a match for the noodles, without being a match for your master, whos the dunderheaded king of the noodles.
dickens|Otherwise, the place will be quickly forgotten, it will never be found when I am dead of the same malady, I shall be laid under some other heap of poor grass.
dickens|Theres been overmuch coming back of late years, and I should of a certainty be hanged if took.
austen|very delightful indeed; I can say nothing less, for I suppose Miss Woodhouse and Mr Frank Churchill are hearing every thing that passes.
austen|Oh, my dear, dear aunt, she rapturously cried, what delight!
dickens|As he passed out, the jury, who had turned back and paused a moment, spoke, through their foreman.
dickens|Can you tell me, this last time, that you feel quite, quite sure, no new affections of mine, and no new duties of mine, will ever interpose between us?
austen|Mrs Weston looked up, afraid to believe; but Emmas countenance was as steady as her words.
dickens|Jacques Three pacifically remarked, He is so much in your mind, see you, madame.
dickens|What could I become with these surroundings?
austen|The account of his connection with the Pemberley family was exactly what he had related himself; and the kindness of the late Mr Darcy, though she had not before known its extent, agreed equally well with his own words.
dickens|The moment Madame Defarge took up the rose, the customers ceased talking, and began gradually to drop out of the wineshop.
austen|Have all her friends left her?
austen|Have you any thing to send or say, besides the love, which nobody carries?
dickens|It was not opened immediately, in answer to the ringing of the bell, and one of my two conductors struck the man who opened it, with his heavy riding glove, across the face.
austen|There are few people whom I really love, and still fewer of whom I think well.
austen|Emma smiled and answeredMy visit was of use to the nervous part of her complaint, I hope; but not even I can charm away a sore throat; it is a most severe cold indeed.
austen|Her approbation, at once general and minute, warm and incessant, could not but please; and for another halfhour they were all walking to and fro, between the different rooms, some suggesting, some attending, and all in happy enjoyment of the future.
dickens|The curtains were long and white, and some of the thundergusts that whirled into the corner, caught them up to the ceiling, and waved them like spectral wings.
dickens|Im awful dull, but I hope Ive beat out something nigh the rights of this at last.
dickens|I walked past the fountain twice or thrice before I descended the steps that were between me and my rooms, but I was quite alone.
austen|Elizabeth longed to explore its windings; but when they had crossed the bridge, and perceived their distance from the house, Mrs Gardiner, who was not a great walker, could go no farther, and thought only of returning to the carriage as quickly as possible.
dickens|I see in your face that you know I can do nothing else than this.
dickens|This I had strongly suspected from Proviss account as Herbert had repeated it of his having kept himself dark; which I pieced on to the fact that he himself was not Mr Jaggerss client until some four years later, and when he could have no reason for claiming his identity.
austen|But the clothes, the wedding clothes!
dickens|He wishes to see the fine worldthe King, the Queen, and Court; let him see them on Sunday.
austen|His civilities to the other ladies must be paid; but his subsequent object was to lament over himself for the heat he was suffering, and the walk he had had for nothing.
dickens|Did she?
austen|Her connexions may be worse than his.
austen|Oh!
dickens|His eyes were so often turned towards it, that he used his tools mechanically, and, one would have said, to very poor account.
dickens|I acquiesced, of course, knowing nothing to the contrary.
dickens|Clearly plots, said Jacques Three.
dickens|I shall not go to bed till night; but I want a bedroom, and a barber.
austen|And then we were so merry all the way home!
dickens|The Doctor was summoned in the usual way, and came to breakfast.
dickens|This door sticks so!
austen|He is no object of regret, indeed!
austen|Emma and Harriet were going to walk; he joined them; and, on returning, they fell in with a larger party, who, like themselves, judged it wisest to take their exercise early, as the weather threatened rain; Mr and Mrs Weston and their son, Miss Bates and her niece, who had accidentally met.
austen|However, I do really think Mr Martin a very amiable young man, and have a great opinion of him; and his being so much attached to meand his writing such a letterbut as to leaving you, it is what I would not do upon any consideration.
austen|Not one party, or scheme, or anything.
austen|Do not forget your engagement.
dickens|Hark!
dickens|Pip has earned a premium here, she said, and here it is.
dickens|Might a mere warmint ask whose property?
dickens|Ive been done everything to, pretty wellexcept hanged.
austen|It shows an affection for her sister that is very pleasing, said Bingley.
austen|So much the better.
dickens|What do you say?
austen|Harriet seemed quite forgotten in the expectation of a pleasant party.
dickens|By dint of this ingenious scheme, his gloves were got on to perfection.
dickens|I was always in debt to him, always under his thumb, always a working, always a getting into danger.
austen|Emma could not forgive her.
dickens|She did.
dickens|I asked, with sudden gravity.
dickens|While I felt sincerely obliged to him for being so interested and considerate, I had an odd halfprovoked sense of suspicion upon me, that if Joe had been coming to see him, he wouldnt have been quite so brisk about it.
austen|I joined them unexpectedly a day or two before the intended elopement, and then Georgiana, unable to support the idea of grieving and offending a brother whom she almost looked up to as a father, acknowledged the whole to me.
dickens|Go on.
austen|They shook hands with great cordiality; and then, till her sister came down, she had to listen to all he had to say of his own happiness, and of Janes perfections; and in spite of his being a lover, Elizabeth really believed all his expectations of felicity to be rationally founded, because they had for basis the excellent understanding, and superexcellent disposition of Jane, and a general similarity of feeling and taste between her and himself.
austen|I shall entreat his pardon for not having done it earlier.
dickens|With that advice, he wiped his soiled hand upon the jokers dress, such as it wasquite deliberately, as having dirtied the hand on his account; and then recrossed the road and entered the wineshop.
dickens|In the howling universe of passion and contention that seemed to encompass this grim old officer conspicuous in his grey coat and red decoration, there was but one quite steady figure, and that was a womans.
austen|Could he expect to be noticed again by the regiment, after such an affront to Colonel Forster?
dickens|Standing at this table, I became conscious of the servile Pumblechook in a black cloak and several yards of hatband, who was alternately stuffing himself, and making obsequious movements to catch my attention.
austen|But with such a father and mother, and such low connections, I am afraid there is no chance of it.
dickens|But whether Joe knew how poor I was, and how my great expectations had all dissolved, like our own marsh mists before the sun, I could not understand.
austen|He comes down on Thursday at the latest, very likely on Wednesday.
dickens|That abject hypocrite, Pumblechook, nodded again, and said, with a patronizing laugh, Its more than that, Mum.
dickens|You neednt bring any, William.
austen|It is downright labour to him where ladies are concerned.
dickens|A shadow indeed!
dickens|Sydney turned his eyes again upon the fire, and, after a silence of a few moments, said  I should like to ask youDoes your childhood seem far off?
dickens|What is to be done?
austen|But I knew notI was afraid of doing too much.
austen|You persuaded her to refuse him.
dickens|It was tempting to think of that expensive Mercenary publicly airing his boots in the archway of the Blue Boars postingyard; it was almost solemn to imagine him casually produced in the tailors shop, and confounding the disrespectful senses of Trabbs boy.
austen|Elizabeth replied that it was.
dickens|The mender of roads, and two hundred and fifty particular friends, stood with folded arms at the fountain, looking at the pillar of fire in the sky.
austen|Towards the end of Janes second song, her voice grew thick.
austen|Mr Elton in love with me!
dickens|Indeed, sir!
dickens|I liked it for a few moments, but she flattered me so very grossly that the pleasure was soon over.
austen|We shall have no peace at Longbourn if Lydia does not go to Brighton.
dickens|There was no way through it, and the front windows of the Doctors lodgings commanded a pleasant little vista of street that had a congenial air of retirement on it.
dickens|That was very thoughtful!
dickens|To whom my sister, more for the relief of her own mind than for the gratification of his, related my pretended experiences.
dickens|asked Defarge, motioning to Mr Lorry to come forward.
austen|The two ladies were delighted to see their dear friend again, called it an age since they had met, and repeatedly asked what she had been doing with herself since their separation.
dickens|Our customers over there, seem not to be able to confide their property to us fast enough.
austen|It ought to be a first object, as I am sure poor Miss Taylors always was with me.
dickens|It was not very polite to herself, I thought, to imply that I should be told lies by her even if I did ask questions.
dickens|I found, on questioning the servants, that Estella was in Paris, and I got a promise from the surgeon that he would write to her by the next post.
austen|Mrs Martin had told her one day and there was a blush as she said it, that it was impossible for any body to be a better son, and therefore she was sure, whenever he married, he would make a good husband.
dickens|Her father had followed her, and would have fallen on his knees to both of them, but that Darnay put out a hand and seized him, crying  No, no!
austen|The possibility of meeting Mr Darcy, while viewing the place, instantly occurred.
austen|evil to some is always good to others.
austen|So very obliging!
dickens|Young women have committed similar follies often before, and have repented them in poverty and obscurity often before.
dickens|said Drummle.
dickens|Without having any definite idea of the penalties I had incurred, it was clear to me that village boys could not go stalking about the country, ravaging the houses of gentlefolks and pitching into the studious youth of England, without laying themselves open to severe punishment.
dickens|That honest tradesmans manner of receiving the look, did not inspire confidence; he changed the leg on which he rested, as often as if he had fifty of those limbs, and were trying them all; he examined his fingernails with a very questionable closeness of attention; and whenever Mr Lorrys eye caught his, he was taken with that peculiar kind of short cough requiring the hollow of a hand before it, which is seldom, if ever, known to be an infirmity attendant on perfect openness of character.
dickens|The accused, who was and who knew he was being mentally hanged, beheaded, and quartered, by everybody there, neither flinched from the situation, nor assumed any theatrical air in it.
austen|I used to be quite angry with Selina; but really I begin now to comprehend that a married woman has many things to call her attention.
dickens|He did this with the air of a Jack who was so right that he could afford to do anything.
austen|But it was two or three days before he could get from her what he wanted.
austen|What is it you mean?
dickens|Give it me!
dickens|I had not got as much further down the street as the postoffice, when I again beheld Trabbs boy shooting round by a back way.
dickens|My wife, said Defarge aloud, addressing Madame Defarge I have travelled certain leagues with this good mender of roads, called Jacques.
austen|And then when we came away it was such fun!
austen|To Pemberley, therefore, they were to go.
dickens|Manners is manners, but still your elths your elth.
dickens|The leprosy of unreality disfigured every human creature in attendance upon Monseigneur.
dickens|To the present hour, the weary western streets of London on a cold, dusty spring night, with their ranges of stern, shutup mansions, and their long rows of lamps, are melancholy to me from this association.
dickens|What is that noise?
austen|Emmas only surprize was that Jane Fairfax should accept those attentions and tolerate Mrs Elton as she seemed to do.
austen|I am sure, she added, if it was not for such good friends I do not know what would become of her, for she is very ill indeed, and suffers a vast deal, though with the greatest patience in the world, which is always the way with her, for she has, without exception, the sweetest temper I have ever met with.
dickens|Goodhumoured looking on the whole, but implacablelooking, too; evidently a man of a strong resolution and a set purpose; a man not desirable to be met, rushing down a narrow pass with a gulf on either side, for nothing would turn the man.
dickens|How lightly I valued the obligation I was conferring on my friend Mr Charles!
austen|Of what he has particularly accused me I am ignorant; but of the truth of what I shall relate, I can summon more than one witness of undoubted veracity.
dickens|The village had its one poor street, with its poor brewery, poor tannery, poor tavern, poor stableyard for relays of posthorses, poor fountain, all usual poor appointments.
dickens|Hailing his softened tone and manner, his daughter fell upon her knees before him, with her appealing hands upon his breast.
austen|I am sure he has not the least idea of it.
austen|Everything nourishes what is strong already.
dickens|said I.
dickens|It was between twelve and one oclock when I reached the Temple, and the gates were shut.
dickens|Among these last, was one, with a spare piece of knitting under her arm as she worked.
austen|If it be so, if I have been misled by such error to inflict pain on her, your resentment has not been unreasonable.
dickens|I forgit myself when I take such an interest in your breakfast, as to wish your frame, exhausted by the debilitating effects of prodigygality, to be stimilated by the olesome nourishment of your forefathers.
austen|I do not believe a word of it, my dear.
austen|So it proved;for when happily released from Mr Elton, and seated by Mr Weston, at dinner, he made use of the very first interval in the cares of hospitality, the very first leisure from the saddle of mutton, to say to her,  We want only two more to be just the right number.
dickens|The royal phantom also carried a ghostly manuscript round its truncheon, to which it had the appearance of occasionally referring, and that too, with an air of anxiety and a tendency to lose the place of reference which were suggestive of a state of mortality.
austen|It is a sort of prologue to the play, a motto to the chapter; and will be soon followed by matteroffact prose.
austen|Their reception at home was most kind.
austen|Ungrateful!
austen|At first, while I supposed you satisfied that Colonel Campbell was the giver, I saw it only as paternal kindness, and thought it the most natural thing in the world.
dickens|Now, that handsome sum of money, Pip, is your own.
dickens|Try to hold me in your mind, at some quiet times, as ardent and sincere in this one thing.
dickens|After a time he would give up once more, on the plea that he had not got Cobbss bill, or Lobbss, or Nobbss, as the case might be.
dickens|His head and throat were bare, and, as he spoke with a helpless look straying all around, he took his coat off, and let it drop on the floor.
dickens|She was not kneeling now, but was down upon the ground.
austen|Oh yes, papa.
austen|Mr Weston certainly would never marry again.
austen|And how did you think Miss Fairfax looking?
dickens|He had since seen her, in the Section of Saint Antoine, over and over again produce her knitted registers, and denounce people whose lives the guillotine then surely swallowed up.
austen|With many compliments to them, and much selfgratulation on the prospect of a connection between the houses, he unfolded the matterto an audience not merely wondering, but incredulous; for Mrs Bennet, with more perseverance than politeness, protested he must be entirely mistaken; and Lydia, always unguarded and often uncivil, boisterously exclaimed  Good Lord!
dickens|This gave me power to keep them back and to look at her so, she gave a contemptuous tossbut with a sense, I thought, of having made too sure that I was so woundedand left me.
austen|There is nobody half so attentive and civil as you are.
dickens|Making his way through the tainted crowd, dispersed up and down this hideous scene of action, with the skill of a man accustomed to make his way quietly, the messenger found out the door he sought, and handed in his letter through a trap in it.
austen|She will drop the acquaintance entirely.
austen|And, upon my word, they have an air of great probability.
austen|Mrs Weston would be at ease.
dickens|Good.
dickens|Something especially reckless in his demeanour, not only gave him a disreputable look, but so diminished the strong resemblance he undoubtedly bore to the prisoner which his momentary earnestness, when they were compared together, had strengthened, that many of the lookerson, taking note of him now, said to one another they would hardly have thought the two were so alike.
dickens|But, he had not yet spoken to her on the subject; the assassination at the deserted chateau far away beyond the heaving water and the long, long, dusty roadsthe solid stone chateau which had itself become the mere mist of a dreamhad been done a year, and he had never yet, by so much as a single spoken word, disclosed to her the state of his heart.
austen|Not that I shall, though, she added to herself, as she finished the letter; and my dear aunt, if you do not tell me in an honourable manner, I shall certainly be reduced to tricks and stratagems to find it out.
dickens|Yes.
dickens|Do I tell it, fur you to feel a obligation?
dickens|This piece of water with an island in the middle which might have been the salad for supper was of a circular form, and he had constructed a fountain in it, which, when you set a little mill going and took a cork out of a pipe, played to that powerful extent that it made the back of your hand quite wet.
austen|It was not to be doubted that poor Harriets attachment had been an offering to conjugal unreserve, and her own share in the story, under a colouring the least favourable to her and the most soothing to him, had in all likelihood been given also.
austen|Emma could hardly understand him; he seemed in an odd humour.
dickens|I am glad you have so much of the Englishman in you, though I wish you had never taken that cold in your voice, said Miss Pross, approvingly.
austen|But still she had inclination enough for shewing people again how delightfully Mr Frank Churchill and Miss Woodhouse dancedfor doing that in which she need not blush to compare herself with Jane Fairfaxand even for simple dancing itself, without any of the wicked aids of vanityto assist him first in pacing out the room they were in to see what it could be made to holdand then in taking the dimensions of the other parlour, in the hope of discovering, in spite of all that Mr Weston could say of their exactly equal size, that it was a little the largest.
dickens|I have never seen him, for he has always kept his room overhead, since I have known Clara.
dickens|Any way, I could scarcely be withheld from going out to Gerrard Street that night.
austen|Emma began to listen better.
dickens|A letter, under date Portsmouth, from a colonist of the name of Provis, asking for the particulars of your address, on behalf of Magwitch.
dickens|What a doleful night!
austen|The rivet came out, you know, this morning.
dickens|Yes, I returned; but I didnt go home.
dickens|I believe so.
austen|The church ought to have been my professionI was brought up for the church, and I should at this time have been in possession of a most valuable living, had it pleased the gentleman we were speaking of just now.
dickens|But if he had looked at me for an hour or for a day, I could not have remembered his face ever afterwards, as having been more attentive.
austen|Having said thus much, I feel no doubt of your secrecy.
dickens|I noticed that.
dickens|All right, said the sergeant.
dickens|Your servant, said Mr Lorry.
dickens|Its quite a story, and shall be saved till dinnertime.
austen|You begin to comprehend me, do you?
austen|On the subject of the first of the two circumstances, she did, after a little reflection, venture the following question.
austen|Much, indeed!
dickens|I thought, Yet Joe, dear Joe, you never tell of it.
austen|But of that, unfortunately, there could be no chance.
austen|Unless where they like women of fortune, which I think they very often do.
austen|I will not open the window here; it would give you all cold; but I can go into my mothers room you know.
dickens|When that person discloses, it will not be necessary for me to know anything about it.
dickens|I have looked at her from my prisonwindow, when I could not bear her light.
austen|He went to Highbury the next morning, and satisfied himself on that point.
dickens|A teaboard, cups and saucers, plates, knives and forks including carvers, spoons various, saltcellars, a meek little muffin confined with the utmost precaution under a strong iron cover, Moses in the bulrushes typified by a soft bit of butter in a quantity of parsley, a pale loaf with a powdered head, two proof impressions of the bars of the kitchen fireplace on triangular bits of bread, and ultimately a fat family urn; which the waiter staggered in with, expressing in his countenance burden and suffering.
austen|I only want to think you perfect, and you set yourself against it.
austen|We may as well wait, perhaps, till the circumstance occurs before we discuss the discretion of his behaviour thereupon.
austen|As for Mr Elton, his manners did not appearbut no, she would not permit a hasty or a witty word from herself about his manners.
austen|She will be extremely sorry to miss seeing you, Miss Woodhouse, but your kindness will excuse her.
dickens|and looked at me in a particularly unpleasant and personal manner.
austen|In that very room she had been measured last September, with her two friends.
dickens|The first was the best room, and in it were Lucies birds, and flowers, and books, and desk, and worktable, and box of watercolours; the second was the Doctors consultingroom, used also as the diningroom; the third, changingly speckled by the rustle of the planetree in the yard, was the Doctors bedroom, and there, in a corner, stood the disused shoemakers bench and tray of tools, much as it had stood on the fifth floor of the dismal house by the wineshop, in the suburb of Saint Antoine in Paris.
dickens|For you cannot sarse the goose and not the gander.
dickens|Try again!
austen|It was much easier to chat than to study; much pleasanter to let her imagination range and work at Harriets fortune, than to be labouring to enlarge her comprehension or exercise it on sober facts; and the only literary pursuit which engaged Harriet at present, the only mental provision she was making for the evening of life, was the collecting and transcribing all the riddles of every sort that she could meet with, into a thin quarto of hotpressed paper, made up by her friend, and ornamented with ciphers and trophies.
dickens|As my eyes followed her white hand, again the same dim suggestion that I could not possibly grasp crossed me.
dickens|You might as well flop as meditate.
dickens|The opened halfdoor was opened a little further, and secured at that angle for the time.
dickens|I dont know; I prefer not to do so.
austen|My dear Isabella,exclaimed he hastilypray do not concern yourself about my looks.
dickens|I still held her forcibly down with all my strength, like a prisoner who might escape; and I doubt if I even knew who she was, or why we had struggled, or that she had been in flames, or that the flames were out, until I saw the patches of tinder that had been her garments no longer alight but falling in a black shower around us.
austen|I am only ashamed of his asking so little.
dickens|I therefore observed I was not quite sure of that.
dickens|I am going to tell you something that will rather surprise you, and that perhaps will make you think me not quite as shrewd as you usually do think me.
austen|All Elizabeths anger against him had been long done away; but had she still felt any, it could hardly have stood its ground against the unaffected cordiality with which he expressed himself on seeing her again.
austen|What an amiable creature I was!
dickens|After having long been in danger of my life at the hands of the village, I have been seized, with great violence and indignity, and brought a long journey on foot to Paris.
dickens|Kiss me, kiss me!
dickens|He walked up hill in the mire by the side of the mail, as the rest of the passengers did; not because they had the least relish for walking exercise, under the circumstances, but because the hill, and the harness, and the mud, and the mail, were all so heavy, that the horses had three times already come to a stop, besides once drawing the coach across the road, with the mutinous intent of taking it back to Blackheath.
austen|Mr Jones says we must not think of moving her.
austen|I hope you will bring Elton, said he but I will not trouble you to give any other invitations.
austen|What a triumph for him, as she often thought, could he know that the proposals which she had proudly spurned only four months ago, would now have been most gladly and gratefully received!
dickens|He was still a pale young gentleman, and had a certain conquered languor about him in the midst of his spirits and briskness, that did not seem indicative of natural strength.
dickens|you have been present all day, and you ought to know.
dickens|Proud?
dickens|Mr Lorry did so, and they went downstairs and out in the streets.
austen|Six years hence, if he could meet with a good sort of young woman in the same rank as his own, with a little money, it might be very desirable.
austen|Mrs Churchill had been recommended to the medical skill of an eminent person there, and had otherwise a fancy for the place.
austen|Not that Emma was gay and thoughtless from any real felicity; it was rather because she felt less happy than she had expected.
austen|Yes, and I had heard it before.
dickens|Nothing human could have held life in the boy but his determination to tell all his wrong.
dickens|It is in vain I represent that, before the sequestration of emigrant property, I had remitted the imposts they had ceased to pay; that I had collected no rent; that I had had recourse to no process.
dickens|Mr Wopsle in a comprehensive black cloak, being descried entering at the turnpike, the gravedigger was admonished in a friendly way, Look out!
dickens|Tell her that it was her husbands last arrangement.
dickens|Mr Wopsle had in his hand the affecting tragedy of George Barnwell, in which he had that moment invested sixpence, with the view of heaping every word of it on the head of Pumblechook, with whom he was going to drink tea.
austen|Your conjecture is totally wrong, I assure you.
dickens|I come from heryour wife, dear Darnay.
austen|You would not have been so long in coming, if you had had a pleasant idea of Highbury.
dickens|You cannot do your friend a better service.
dickens|I am glad that, thinking I deserve to be thanked, you have come to thank me.
dickens|I injured my digestion.
austen|This is in the supposition of his attachment continuing what it now is; but I do not know that I expect it will; I do not look upon him to be quite the sort of manI do not altogether build upon his steadiness or constancy.
austen|She paused over it, while Harriet stood anxiously watching for her opinion, with a Well, well, and was at last forced to add, Is it a good letter?
austen|The conversation was here interrupted.
dickens|Ill put em on the outside of the row.
austen|I know it has.
dickens|Where?
austen|It is not a state to be safely entered into with doubtful feelings, with half a heart.
austen|What is it about?
dickens|Has she been in his service ever since?
austen|But I knew I should persuade you at last.
dickens|Not a bit.
dickens|The great city was almost new to her, she told me, for she had never left Miss Havishams neighborhood until she had gone to France, and she had merely passed through London then in going and returning.
dickens|While Miss Skiffins was taking off her bonnet she retained her green gloves during the evening as an outward and visible sign that there was company, Wemmick invited me to take a walk with him round the property, and see how the island looked in wintertime.
austen|Elizabeth walked in quest of the only face whose features would be known to her.
austen|He is your superior, no doubt, and there do seem objections and obstacles of a very serious nature; but yet, Harriet, more wonderful things have taken place, there have been matches of greater disparity.
austen|Her spirits seemed overcome.
dickens|Why, yes, said Mr Wemmick.
austen|But, however, I found afterwards from Patty, that William said it was all the apples of that sort his master had; he had brought them alland now his master had not one left to bake or boil.
austen|Here again I shall give you painto what degree you only can tell.
austen|I went only to the postoffice, said she, and reached home before the rain was much.
austen|She believed it would be wiser for her to say and know at once, all that she meant to say and know.
dickens|He had glittering eyes,small, keen, and black,and thin wide mottled lips.
austen|Let his behaviour be the guide of your sensations.
dickens|Monseigneur, not yet.
dickens|I hope she is, my dear man, cried the distracted Miss Pross, and I hope she finds it answering her expectations.
austen|Yes, I am sure you are much too reasonable.
austen|It was a wretched business indeed!
austen|Have you heard from her yourself this morning?
dickens|These, however, were only the exceptions required to prove the rule that the sparrows in the planetree behind the house, and the echoes in the corner before it, had their own way from Sunday morning unto Saturday night.
dickens|Madame Defarge beckoned the Juryman and The Vengeance a little nearer to the door, and there expounded her further views to them thus  She will now be at home, awaiting the moment of his death.
dickens|Well?
austen|How d ye do?
austen|I do not wonder, Miss Woodhouse, she resumed, that you should feel a great difference between the two, as to me or as to any body.
dickens|Stop!
dickens|Notwithstanding Miss Prosss denial of her own imagination, there was a perception of the pain of being monotonously haunted by one sad idea, in her repetition of the phrase, walking up and down, which testified to her possessing such a thing.
austen|For the liveliness of your mind, I did.
dickens|He is very regular in his walks, is my son.
austen|It was not possible that the occurrence should not be strongly recommending each to the other.
austen|And as it is some months since Miss Campbell married, the impression may be a little worn off.
dickens|asked Stryver.
austen|I am quite enough in love.
austen|It was, moreover, such a promising thing for her younger daughters, as Janes marrying so greatly must throw them in the way of other rich men; and lastly, it was so pleasant at her time of life to be able to consign her single daughters to the care of their sister, that she might not be obliged to go into company more than she liked.
dickens|What oclock do you make it, Joe?
dickens|Now let me go up and look at my old little room, and rest there a few minutes by myself.
austen|To be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love; and very lively hopes of Mr Bingleys heart were entertained.
austen|It was a pity, perhaps, that he had not come last night; for, though the child seemed well now, very well considering, it would probably have been better if Perry had seen it.
dickens|said I, in a general way, and with quiet desperation.
dickens|I wonder he didnt marry her and get all the property, said I.
austen|The colour now rushed into Elizabeths cheeks in the instantaneous conviction of its being a letter from the nephew, instead of the aunt; and she was undetermined whether most to be pleased that he explained himself at all, or offended that his letter was not rather addressed to herself; when her father continued  You look conscious.
dickens|How the virtuous servant, Cly, was his friend and partner, and was worthy to be; how the watchful eyes of those forgers and false swearers had rested on the prisoner as a victim, because some family affairs in France, he being of French extraction, did require his making those passages across the Channelthough what those affairs were, a consideration for others who were near and dear to him, forbade him, even for his life, to disclose.
dickens|It is, that if Miss Manette should bring to you at any time, on her own part, such a confidence as I have ventured to lay before you, you will bear testimony to what I have said, and to your belief in it.
dickens|Theres something worth spending in that there book, dear boy.
dickens|Madame Defarges dark eyes followed her through this rapid movement, and rested on her when it was finished.
austen|What did she say?
austen|I thought I understood from the Gardiners that you had.
austen|It is a pity they are not handsome!
dickens|Enough of me.
dickens|I am quite ashamed.
austen|When Lydia went away she promised to write very often and very minutely to her mother and Kitty; but her letters were always long expected, and always very short.
dickens|Much he knew about peerless beauties, a mean, miserable idiot!
dickens|said my convict to the sergeant.
austen|Elizabeth was delighted.
austen|Very beautiful, indeed, replied Emma; and she spoke so kindly, that he gratefully burst out,  How delighted I am to see you again!
dickens|I had not seen Mr Wemmick for some weeks, when I thought I would write him a note and propose to go home with him on a certain evening.
austen|repeated Elizabeth, in utter amazement.
dickens|I have taken to the sofa with my staylace cut, and have lain there hours insensible, with my head over the side, and my hair all down, and my feet I dont know where  Much higher than your head, my love, said Mr Camilla.
dickens|I would ask you, dearest, to be very generous with him always, and very lenient on his faults when he is not by.
austen|If she can hesitate as to Yes, she ought to say No directly.
dickens|Escaped.
austen|This present from the Campbells, said shethis pianoforte is very kindly given.
dickens|Windy donkey as he was, it really amazed me that he could have the face to talk thus to mine.
dickens|When I opened the shutters and looked out at the wet wild morning, all of a leaden hue; when I walked from room to room; when I sat down again shivering, before the fire, waiting for my laundress to appear; I thought how miserable I was, but hardly knew why, or how long I had been so, or on what day of the week I made the reflection, or even who I was that made it.
dickens|She seemed much older than I, of course, being a girl, and beautiful and selfpossessed; and she was as scornful of me as if she had been oneandtwenty, and a queen.
dickens|Let her alone, said Joe.
austen|thats a great pity; for I assure you, Miss Woodhouse, where the waters do agree, it is quite wonderful the relief they give.
austen|said Mr Woodhouse, shaking his head and fixing his eyes on her with tender concern.
austen|Her disappointment in Charlotte made her turn with fonder regard to her sister, of whose rectitude and delicacy she was sure her opinion could never be shaken, and for whose happiness she grew daily more anxious, as Bingley had now been gone a week and nothing more was heard of his return.
austen|She longed for the serenity they might gradually introduce; and on Mr Perrys coming in soon after dinner, with a disengaged hour to give her father, she lost no time in hurrying into the shrubbery.
dickens|said the stranger, biting his forefinger at him.
austen|She went on, however.
dickens|Here is the man, said Joe.
dickens|But what I do know Ill tell you.
austen|Birth, abilities, and education, had been equally marking one as an associate for her, to be received with gratitude; and the otherwhat was she?
austen|But they would have done better had they given her notice of it.
austen|She blushed at the very idea, and thought it would be better to speak openly to her aunt than to run such a risk.
dickens|asked Defarge.
austen|The clock struck twelve as she passed through the hall.
austen|There was nothing in all this either to astonish or interest, and it caught Emmas attention only as it united with the subject which already engaged her mind.
dickens|Did you hear the message?
dickens|The servant who spoke, had thrown the blinds wide, had looked out into the vacant darkness, and stood with that blank behind him, looking round for instructions.
austen|I speak nothing but the truth.
austen|If, therefore, an excuse for not keeping his promise should come to his friend within a few days, she added, I shall know how to understand it.
dickens|Monseigneur, there are so many little heaps of poor grass?
austen|She felt all the perverseness of the mischance that should bring him where no one else was brought, and, to prevent its ever happening again, took care to inform him at first that it was a favourite haunt of hers.
dickens|Mr Wopsle, united to a Roman nose and a large shining bald forehead, had a deep voice which he was uncommonly proud of; indeed it was understood among his acquaintance that if you could only give him his head, he would read the clergyman into fits; he himself confessed that if the Church was thrown open, meaning to competition, he would not despair of making his mark in it.
austen|Elizabeth almost stared at her.
dickens|We became particularly hot upon some boorish sneer of Drummles, to the effect that we were too free with our money.
dickens|These solemn words, which had been read at his fathers grave, arose in his mind as he went down the dark streets, among the heavy shadows, with the moon and the clouds sailing on high above him.
dickens|I follow you, sir.
dickens|It were but lonesome then, said Joe, living here alone, and I got acquainted with your sister.
austen|Ah!
dickens|Again, the only other man who dwelt in the house of which my chambers formed a part had been in the country for some weeks, and he certainly had not returned in the night, because we had seen his door with his seal on it as we came upstairs.
austen|said Emma.
austen|There is no denying it, he replied.
dickens|I am over the way.
austen|After a song or two, and before she could reply to the entreaties of several that she would sing again, she was eagerly succeeded at the instrument by her sister Mary, who having, in consequence of being the only plain one in the family, worked hard for knowledge and accomplishments, was always impatient for display.
austen|But I believe I must date it from my first seeing his beautiful grounds at Pemberley.
dickens|Mr Stryver laughed till he shook his precocious paunch.
austen|I do not know.
dickens|No, for I have been afraid to think of any future.
dickens|The man moved a little further away, as soon as he could, and the mender of roads fanned himself with his blue cap feeling it mightily close and oppressive.
dickens|Yes!
dickens|and so the dustman says, I believe, with the strongest approval, and so does the marinestore shop in the back street.
dickens|Words cannot tell what a sense I had, at the same time, of the dreadful mystery that he was to me.
austen|My dearest papa!
dickens|In a corner was a little table of papers with a shaded lamp so that he seemed to bring the office home with him in that respect too, and to wheel it out of an evening and fall to work.
dickens|That?
dickens|While my mind was thus engaged, I thought of the beautiful young Estella, proud and refined, coming towards me, and I thought with absolute abhorrence of the contrast between the jail and her.
austen|Miss Woodhouse, how ungrateful I have been!
dickens|But yours cannot be dismissed; indeed, my dear dear Handel, it must not be dismissed.
austen|Here, she must be leading a life of privation and penance; there it would have been all enjoyment.
dickens|There I stood, for minutes, looking at Joe, already at work with a glow of health and strength upon his face that made it show as if the bright sun of the life in store for him were shining on it.
austen|And knowing, as she did, the favourable state of mind of each at this period, it struck her the more.
austen|Who could have seen through such thickheaded nonsense?
dickens|Of unjust treatment in detention and hardship, and in cruel separation from his wife and child, he foreshadowed the likelihood, or the certainty; but, beyond this, he dreaded nothing distinctly.
austen|This account then is what he has received from Mr Darcy.
dickens|Never has that curtain dropped so heavy and blank, as when my way in life lay stretched out straight before me through the newly entered road of apprenticeship to Joe.
dickens|Never.
dickens|No, I returned; but cannot the Estella help it?
dickens|No precaution could have been more obvious than our refraining from communication with him that day; yet this again increased my restlessness.
austen|But the case is this We are not rich enough or grand enough for them; and she is the more anxious to get Miss Darcy for her brother, from the notion that when there has been one intermarriage, she may have less trouble in achieving a second; in which there is certainly some ingenuity, and I dare say it would succeed, if Miss de Bourgh were out of the way.
austen|Ten thousand a year, and very likely more!
austen|You must let me read it to him.
dickens|Our eyes met, and all the Sir melted out of that manly heart as he gave me his hand.
austen|But Elizabeth, who had not the least inclination to remain with them, laughingly answered  No, no; stay where you are.
austen|It seemed at first an accidental division, but it never materially varied.
dickens|What is it?
dickens|It was the first time she had ever called me by my name.
dickens|Do what he would, and love me though he did, the light left his face ever and again, and a film came over the placid look at the white ceiling.
dickens|I think it must have been a full year after our hunt upon the marshes, for it was a long time after, and it was winter and a hard frost.
dickens|said Stryver, squaring himself; I have less need to make myself agreeable than you have, being more independent in circumstances.
austen|If I had not persuaded Harriet into liking the man, I could have borne any thing.
dickens|Was he one of those two passengers?
austen|Charlotte is an excellent manager, I dare say.
austen|How sorry I am!
austen|It darted through her, with the speed of an arrow, that Mr Knightley must marry no one but herself!
dickens|Miss Havisham asked her.
dickens|There had been a violent struggle, perhaps a fight.
austen|Wretched, wretched mistake!
austen|As they were turning into the grounds, Mr Perry passed by on horseback.
dickens|Lord forbid that I should want anything for not standing in Pips way,  said Joe, staring.
austen|So genteel and easy!
austen|Such a change in a man of so much pride exciting not only astonishment but gratitudefor to love, ardent love, it must be attributed; and as such its impression on her was of a sort to be encouraged, as by no means unpleasing, though it could not be exactly defined.
dickens|Enough!
dickens|May I ask you if you have ever had an opportunity of remarking, down in your part of the country, that the children of not exactly suitable marriages are always most particularly anxious to be married?
dickens|In happier times, addressing me, I think you took sugar?
dickens|said Madame Defarge, stopping in her work for the first time, and pointing her knittingneedle at little Lucie as if it were the finger of Fate.
dickens|Knowing what I knew, I set up an inference of my own here.
dickens|He always remembered with fear and trembling, that that terrible woman had knitted when he talked with her, and had looked ominously at him as her fingers moved.
dickens|There was no doing it in the night, for there was no getting a light by easy friction then; to have got one I must have struck it out of flint and steel, and have made a noise like the very pirate himself rattling his chains.
austen|He was to leave them early the next day; and he soon began with  Well, Emma, I do not believe I have any thing more to say about the boys; but you have your sisters letter, and every thing is down at full length there we may be sure.
dickens|Does his daughter know of the relapse?
dickens|said Monsieur the Marquis.
dickens|Yes?
dickens|The room was but small, and the clients seemed to have had a habit of backing up against the wall; the wall, especially opposite to Mr Jaggerss chair, being greasy with shoulders.
dickens|Pursuing my idea as I leaned back in my wooden chair, and looked at Biddy sewing away with her head on one side, I began to think her rather an extraordinary girl.
austen|Elizabeth, after slightly surveying it, went to a window to enjoy its prospect.
austen|His diffidence had prevented his depending on his own judgment in so anxious a case, but his reliance on mine made every thing easy.
austen|Emmas going away directly after tea might be giving offence.
austen|He left me not half an hour ago.
austen|He only means  He and I should differ very little in our estimation of the two,  interrupted she, with a sort of serious smilemuch less, perhaps, than he is aware of, if we could enter without ceremony or reserve on the subject.
dickens|The plaintive tone of her compassion merged into the less musical voice of the Judge, as he said something fiercely Answer the questions put to you, and make no remark upon them.
dickens|There was an immediate dispersal for these restoratives, and she softly laid the patient on a sofa, and tended her with great skill and gentleness calling her my precious!
austen|Mrs Bates, the widow of a former vicar of Highbury, was a very old lady, almost past every thing but tea and quadrille.
dickens|Noodle!
dickens|Joe, said I, taking hold of his rolledup shirt sleeve, and twisting it between my finger and thumb, you remember all that about Miss Havishams?
austen|She then sought her eldest sister, who had undertaken to make inquiries on the same subject of Bingley.
austen|The comfort to her of the regiments approaching removal was indeed beyond expression.
austen|Such a development of every thing most unwelcome!
dickens|You wouldnt put yourself in opposition to the interests of your husband and child, would you?
austen|Ah!
austen|cried Mr Elton, what can be the meaning of this?
dickens|To overcome the difficulty of getting past that monosyllable, I took it from her, and said, repeating it with emphasis, Well!
austen|Offended, probably, by the little encouragement which her proposals of intimacy met with, she drew back in her turn and gradually became much more cold and distant; and though the effect was agreeable, the illwill which produced it was necessarily increasing Emmas dislike.
austen|No,he calmly replied,there is but one married woman in the world whom I can ever allow to invite what guests she pleases to Donwell, and that one is  Mrs Weston, I suppose, interrupted Mrs Elton, rather mortified.
dickens|As to the strange man; if he had come back for his two banknotes there could have been no dispute about them, because my sister was fully prepared to restore them.
dickens|retorted my sister, quick to resent his being wanted at all.
austen|It is my party.
dickens|Who said it?
austen|you are an odd creature!
dickens|Live in London?
dickens|Miss Havishams family I took upon myself; intending to communicate with Mr Matthew Pocket only, and leave him to do as he liked about informing the rest.
austen|And even if I have not underrated him hitherto, he may yet turn out well.
austen|I know my own strength, and I shall never be embarrassed again by his coming.
austen|Oh!
dickens|A man in a dustcolored dress appeared with what was wanted,I could not have said from where whether from the inn yard, or the street, or where not,and as Drummle leaned down from the saddle and lighted his cigar and laughed, with a jerk of his head towards the coffeeroom windows, the slouching shoulders and ragged hair of this man whose back was towards me reminded me of Orlick.
austen|I do not understand what you mean by success, said Mr Knightley.
austen|Elizabeth shook her head over this letter.
austen|You are all goodness, and I believe there will be need of even all your goodness to allow for some parts of my past conduct.
dickens|He was a prosperous old bachelor, and his open window looked into a prosperous little garden and orchard, and there was a prosperous iron safe let into the wall at the side of his fireplace, and I did not doubt that heaps of his prosperity were put away in it in bags.
austen|She soon believed herself to penetrate Mrs Eltons thoughts, and understand why she was, like herself, in happy spirits; it was being in Miss Fairfaxs confidence, and fancying herself acquainted with what was still a secret to other people.
dickens|He had no goodhumour in his face, nor any openness of aspect left, but had become a secret, angry, dangerous man.
dickens|And your sister, shes no worse than she were.
dickens|Yes, yes better as it is.
austen|if you had seen her, as I did, when she was at the worst!
dickens|I was always treated as if I had insisted on being born in opposition to the dictates of reason, religion, and morality, and against the dissuading arguments of my best friends.
austen|I shall press you no more.
dickens|Many pleasant pictures of the life that I would lead there, and of the change for the better that would come over my character when I had a guiding spirit at my side whose simple faith and clear home wisdom I had proved, beguiled my way.
dickens|I said it, you know, said Joe.
austen|Or that he did not give her the use of their own instrumentwhich must now be shut up in London, untouched by any body.
austen|Ah!
austen|They are coming in, I hope.
austen|Do you certainly leave Kent on Saturday?
austen|But perhaps he may never have heard of there being such a creature in the world.
austen|Respect for right conduct is felt by every body.
austen|She had half a mind to resent; but an instants observation convinced her that it was really said only to relieve his own feelings, and not meant to provoke; and therefore she let it pass.
austen|cried Jane, what do you mean, sir?
austen|That is very true, replied Elizabeth, and I could easily forgive his pride, if he had not mortified mine.
austen|With the fortitude of a devoted novitiate, she had resolved at oneandtwenty to complete the sacrifice, and retire from all the pleasures of life, of rational intercourse, equal society, peace and hope, to penance and mortification for ever.
dickens|It is under my arm, said Miss Pross, in smothered tones, you shall not draw it.
dickens|But she shook her head to that extent when she was shown it, that we were terrified lest in her weak and shattered state she should dislocate her neck.
dickens|said I.
dickens|Tell me as an old, old friend.
dickens|Rum.
austen|Ayethat is because you have the right disposition.
austen|And that is quite impossible; for he is now in the custody of his friend, and Mr Darcy would no more suffer him to call on Jane in such a part of London!
austen|It makes me very nervous and poorly, to be thwarted so in my own family, and to have neighbours who think of themselves before anybody else.
austen|That is a question which Mr Darcy only can answer.
dickens|It was the sign of the regeneration of the human race.
dickens|It was like pushing the chair itself back into the past, when we began the old slow circuit round about the ashes of the bridal feast.
dickens|The man says, Joe assented.
austen|He felt the going away almost too much to speak of it.
dickens|Then let him come.
dickens|Monseigneur, as a class, had dissociated himself from the phenomenon of his not being appreciated of his being so little wanted in France, as to incur considerable danger of receiving his dismissal from it, and this life together.
austen|He will be so pleased to see my little ones.
dickens|In the same early morning, I discovered a singular affinity between seeds and corduroys.
dickens|Some men kneeled down, made scoops of their two hands joined, and sipped, or tried to help women, who bent over their shoulders, to sip, before the wine had all run out between their fingers.
dickens|Look at his face; aint it written there?
austen|I am glad you think I have been useful to her; but Harriet only wanted drawing out, and receiving a few, very few hints.
dickens|That miserable man would seem for a time to have become convinced of his errors, when far removed from the scenes of his old offences, and to have lived a peaceable and honest life.
austen|I will not trust myself on the subject, replied Wickham; I can hardly be just to him.
dickens|Even I, safe as an Englishman, and even Tellsons, important as they are to French credit, avoid all naming of the matter.
dickens|Taking the table to represent the path of virtue, I am justified in stating that during the whole time of the Ageds reading, Wemmicks arm was straying from the path of virtue and being recalled to it by Miss Skiffins.
austen|The plan was that she should be brought up for educating others; the very few hundred pounds which she inherited from her father making independence impossible.
dickens|If they are not in that room, they are gone, and can be pursued and brought back, said Madame Defarge to herself.
austen|Allow me to say, however, that your fair partner does not disgrace you, and that I must hope to have this pleasure often repeated, especially when a certain desirable event, my dear Eliza glancing at her sister and Bingley shall take place.
austen|Elizabeth, construing all this into a wish of hearing her speak of her sister, was pleased, and on this account, as well as some others, found herself, when their visitors left them, capable of considering the last halfhour with some satisfaction, though while it was passing, the enjoyment of it had been little.
austen|After walking two or three times along that part of the lane, she was tempted, by the pleasantness of the morning, to stop at the gates and look into the park.
dickens|For which reason, Doctor Manette, said Darnay, modestly but firmly, I would not ask that word, to save my life.
dickens|he said to Monseigneur, as he took his seat at table.
dickens|The whole scene starts out again in the vivid colors of the moment, down to the drops of April rain on the windows of the court, glittering in the rays of April sun.
dickens|It is done.
austen|She read, and was surprized.
austen|He is a pleasant fellow, and would jilt you creditably.
dickens|Let the bearer see his wife.
austen|At length the Parsonage was discernible.
dickens|You have business before you; useful business.
austen|Janes is nothing to itnothing at all.
dickens|He had that rather wild, strained, seared marking about the eyes, which may be observed in all free livers of his class, from the portrait of Jeffries downward, and which can be traced, under various disguises of Art, through the portraits of every Drinking Age.
austen|my dear father, can you suppose it possible that they will not be censured and despised wherever they are known, and that their sisters will not be often involved in the disgrace?
austen|But it is always so.
dickens|Never you mind what it is!
austen|Mr Martin, I imagine, has his fortune entirely to makecannot be at all beforehand with the world.
dickens|Upon those, had followed Gabelles letter the appeal of an innocent prisoner, in danger of death, to his justice, honour, and good name.
dickens|Then the time comes, said Herbert, when you see your opening.
austen|After making every possible inquiry on that side London, Colonel F.
dickens|Good repose!
dickens|Nevertheless, pursued Darnay, rising to ring the bell, there is nothing in that, I hope, to prevent my calling the reckoning, and our parting without illblood on either side.
dickens|Look over it, dear boy.
dickens|You are the husband of the sister of this boy?
dickens|Compeysons wife, being used to him, giv him some liquor to get the horrors off, and by and by he quieted.
dickens|Business!
dickens|Why, heres three Js, and three Os, and three JO, Joes in it, Pip!
austen|And this, cried Darcy, as he walked with quick steps across the room, is your opinion of me!
austen|Yes, yes, they will take care not to outrun their income.
austen|Oh!
austen|Oh, yes.
dickens|It is represented that he is not in strong health, and has separated sadly from a friend who is under the displeasure of the Republic.
austen|The folly of not allowing people to be comfortable at homeand the folly of peoples not staying comfortably at home when they can!
austen|I either depend more upon Emmas good sense than you do, or am more anxious for her present comfort; for I cannot lament the acquaintance.
dickens|Isnt there bright eyes somewheres, wot you love the thoughts on?
austen|It is Mr Bingley, I am sure!
austen|But disguise of every sort is my abhorrence.
austen|I felt how right you were the whole time, but was too anxious for securing any thing to like to yield.
austen|He studies too much for words of four syllables.
dickens|Do you see him?
austen|Harriet expressed herself very much as might be supposed, without reproaches, or apparent sense of illusage; and yet Emma fancied there was a something of resentment, a something bordering on it in her style, which increased the desirableness of their being separate.
dickens|He now retorted in a coarse, lumpish way, and Startop tried to turn the discussion aside with some small pleasantry that made us all laugh.
austen|I wonder how she speaks of the Coleswhat she calls them!
austen|I would advise you, before you determine on it, to consult the wishes of the present party; I am much mistaken if there are not some among us to whom a ball would be rather a punishment than a pleasure.
dickens|Why dont you cry?
dickens|You may consider that you do, but you do not, Joseph.
dickens|At a change in his manner as if he were even going to embrace me, I laid a hand upon his breast and put him away.
dickens|A little before dusk, my orders are.
dickens|Nor, how there were echoes all about her, sweet in her ears, of the many times her father had told her that he found her more devoted to him married if that could be than single, and of the many times her husband had said to her that no cares and duties seemed to divide her love for him or her help to him, and asked her What is the magic secret, my darling, of your being everything to all of us, as if there were only one of us, yet never seeming to be hurried, or to have too much to do?
austen|I told you that your suspicions would guide mine.
dickens|I took my young sister for I have another to a place beyond the reach of this man, and where, at least, she will never be his vassal.
dickens|We were joined by no stragglers from the village, for the weather was cold and threatening, the way dreary, the footing bad, darkness coming on, and the people had good fires indoors and were keeping the day.
austen|She could see nothing but evil in it.
austen|I have sent for you on an affair of importance.
austen|When Harriet had closed her evidence, she appealed to her dear Miss Woodhouse, to say whether she had not good ground for hope.
austen|was his reply, but not at all in anger.
austen|I feel it so very due.
austen|It is not Swisserland, but it will be something for a young man so much in want of a change.
dickens|Perfectly calm and steady, he sometimes repeated them to himself as he walked; but, he heard them always.
austen|Was he handsome?
austen|Oh!
dickens|You know he is despised.
dickens|What do you mean?
austen|Nay, said Elizabeth, this is not fair.
austen|Is not it a good exchange?
austen|I came to try you.
austen|Ayelike Maple Grove, I dare say.
austen|It will be nothing but pleasure, a life of pleasure.
dickens|She lingered for a week.
dickens|The falser he, the truer Joe; the meaner he, the nobler Joe.
austen|it must be my uncles doings!
dickens|The address, turned into English, ran  Very pressing.
austen|Mr Woodhouse soon followed; and the necessity of exertion made him composed.
dickens|No doubt, said I.
dickens|It was not asked, and you see me here.
austen|had she heard any thing about her, since their being at Randalls?
dickens|Under the low red glare of sunset, the beacon, and the gibbet, and the mound of the Battery, and the opposite shore of the river, were plain, though all of a watery lead color.
austen|A little curiosity Emma had; and she made the most of it while her friend related.
austen|But you, who have known Miss Fairfax from a child, must be a better judge of her character, and of how she is likely to conduct herself in critical situations, than I can be.
dickens|But I knowed you couldnt be that.
dickens|But unless I had taken the life of Trabbs boy on that occasion, I really do not even now see what I could have done save endure.
austen|If he were ever able to learn what Wickhams debts have been, said Elizabeth, and how much is settled on his side on our sister, we shall exactly know what Mr Gardiner has done for them, because Wickham has not sixpence of his own.
austen|did you ever see any thing?
dickens|I thought this odd; however, I said nothing, and we set off.
dickens|Then, he conducted me to a bower about a dozen yards off, but which was approached by such ingenious twists of path that it took quite a long time to get at; and in this retreat our glasses were already set forth.
austen|It was merely a blind to conceal his real situation with another.
dickens|Time was, when a poet sat upon a stool in a public place, and mused in the sight of men.
dickens|There was a bookcase in the room; I saw from the backs of the books, that they were about evidence, criminal law, criminal biography, trials, acts of Parliament, and such things.
dickens|So cowed was their condition, and so long and hard their experience of what such a man could do to them, within the law and beyond it, that not a voice, or a hand, or even an eye was raised.
austen|Very true; he did not come till Miss Fairfax was here.
austen|Well, if he have nothing else to recommend him, he will be a treasure at Highbury.
austen|Isabella does not seem more my sister; has never excited a greater interest; perhaps hardly so great.
dickens|Dinner over, we produced a bundle of pens, a copious supply of ink, and a goodly show of writing and blotting paper.
austen|The marriage of a daughter, which had been the first object of her wishes since Jane was sixteen, was now on the point of accomplishment, and her thoughts and her words ran wholly on those attendants of elegant nuptials, fine muslins, new carriages, and servants.
dickens|His haggard eyes turned to Defarge as if he would have transferred the question to him but as no help came from that quarter, they turned back on the questioner when they had sought the ground.
dickens|He keeps his grog ready mixed in a little tub on the table.
austen|Is not it so?
austen|Louisa, you will not mind my waking Mr Hurst?
dickens|Good day!
dickens|There might be medical doctors at the present hour, a picking up their guineas where a honest tradesman dont pick up his fardensfardens!
dickens|Play the game out.
austen|I never saw such a likeness in my life.
dickens|Within a hundred miles, and in the light of other fires, there were other functionaries less fortunate, that night and other nights, whom the rising sun found hanging across oncepeaceful streets, where they had been born and bred; also, there were other villagers and townspeople less fortunate than the mender of roads and his fellows, upon whom the functionaries and soldiery turned with success, and whom they strung up in their turn.
austen|No; he thought it very far from an improvementa very bad planmuch worse than the other.
dickens|But long after that, and long after I had heard the clinking of the teacups and was quite ready, I wanted the resolution to go downstairs.
dickens|What will I not promise to my Love?
dickens|That was not the last time either, Biddy?
dickens|A shrill sound of laughter and of amused voicesvoices of men, women, and childrenresounded in the street while this wine game lasted.
dickens|sohothen!
dickens|Noon coming, and the Doctor not returning, and every minutes delay tending to compromise Tellsons, Mr Lorry advised with Lucie.
dickens|Commence, was Monsieur Defarges not unreasonable reply, at the commencement.
austen|Harriet submitted, and approved, and was grateful.
dickens|None of these things will interfere with my chartering a few thousand tons on my own account.
austen|I consider one as including the other.
dickens|My mind misgives me much, said Mr Lorry, angrily shaking a forefinger at him, that you have used the respectable and great house of Tellsons as a blind, and that you have had an unlawful occupation of an infamous description.
austen|Oh, Jane, take care.
dickens|At present, you may buy your food, and nothing more.
austen|Somebody said that Miss Gilbert was expected at her brothers, and must be invited with the rest.
dickens|I am very much put out about my Ladybird.
dickens|I shall not rest satisfied with merely employing my capital in insuring ships.
dickens|Then I thought if she were, as I feared, by no means rapturously grateful for that destiny yet, when would she begin to be interested in me?
dickens|Are you all right now?
austen|To know that he has not thrown himself away, is such a comfort!
austen|In anticipating the happiness of Bingley, which of course was to be inferior only to his own, he continued the conversation till they reached the house.
dickens|It was a relief to get out of the room where the night had been so miserable, and I needed no second knocking at the door to startle me from my uneasy bed.
dickens|Little Jane is the same.
dickens|One cannot help thinking, having had some sympathy for the miserable people, and having abandoned something to them, he spoke here in his former thoughtful manner, that one might be listened to, and might have the power to persuade to some restraint.
dickens|And looking along them, with reverently shaded eyes, a bridge of light appeared to span the air between him and the sun, while the river sparkled under it.
austen|When coffee was over, Colonel Fitzwilliam reminded Elizabeth of having promised to play to him; and she sat down directly to the instrument.
austen|She is not a sensible girl, nor a girl of any information.
austen|Every possibility of good was before me, and the first of blessings secured, in obtaining her promises of faith and correspondence.
dickens|I think so.
dickens|That were your observation when I broke it off, Pip?
austen|Could she have seen half as much love in Mr Darcy for herself, she would have ordered her wedding clothes.
austen|And I am quite serious too, I assure you, replied Mrs Elton gaily, in resolving to be always on the watch, and employing my friends to watch also, that nothing really unexceptionable may pass us.
austen|Emma felt that Mrs Weston was giving her a momentary glance; and she was herself struck by his warmth.
dickens|A rivers its natural depth, and hes his natural depth.
austen|Pray let me hear what you have to accuse him of, cried Colonel Fitzwilliam.
dickens|Mr Lorry knew Miss Pross to be very jealous, but he also knew her by this time to be, beneath the service of her eccentricity, one of those unselfish creaturesfound only among womenwho will, for pure love and admiration, bind themselves willing slaves, to youth when they have lost it, to beauty that they never had, to accomplishments that they were never fortunate enough to gain, to bright hopes that never shone upon their own sombre lives.
dickens|Why should I loiter on my road, to compare the state of mind in which I had tried to rid myself of the stain of the prison before meeting her at the coachoffice, with the state of mind in which I now reflected on the abyss between Estella in her pride and beauty, and the returned transport whom I harbored?
dickens|Citizen Doctor, said the first, with his former reluctance, ask no more.
austen|Nothing, but to grow more worthy of him, whose intentions and judgment had been ever so superior to her own.
dickens|But what did I know?
austen|They all exclaimed against such terrific ideas; and Mr Gardiner, after general assurances of his affection for her and all her family, told her that he meant to be in London the very next day, and would assist Mr Bennet in every endeavour for recovering Lydia.
dickens|It was the alwaysvain endeavour to discharge my poor mothers trust that first brought my fatal presence near you.
dickens|Monseigneur, the man.
austen|My dear, you flatter me.
dickens|The discreet Mr Lorry said, in a sample tone of the voice he would recommend under the circumstances, How do you do, Mr Stryver?
dickens|How did it show itself?
dickens|Rather alarmed by this summary action, I was for a little delay, and even hinted that our friend himself might be difficult to deal with.
austen|He joined them immediately, and, with scarcely an invitation, seated himself between them.
dickens|I, Alexandre Manette, unfortunate physician, native of Beauvais, and afterwards resident in Paris, write this melancholy paper in my doleful cell in the Bastille, during the last month of the year, 1767.
austen|Mr Woodhouse was resigned.
austen|But take it away, and all appropriation ceases, and a very pretty gallant charade remains, fit for any collection.
dickens|Which side he was on I couldnt make out, for he seemed to me to be grinding the whole place in a mill; I only know that when I stole out on tiptoe, he was not on the side of the bench; for, he was making the legs of the old gentleman who presided, quite convulsive under the table, by his denunciations of his conduct as the representative of British law and justice in that chair that day.
austen|The laurels at Maple Grove are in the same profusion as here, and stand very much in the same wayjust across the lawn; and I had a glimpse of a fine large tree, with a bench round it, which put me so exactly in mind!
dickens|I might not have the hopefulness to do it for weeks; I might mistaken or not mistaken have that hopefulness tomorrow.
dickens|Finally, he walked across the room with a measured tread to where the window was.
austen|But I ought to have gone before.
dickens|So be it.
dickens|said the Marquis.
austen|She had taken up a wrong idea, fancying it was a mother and daughter, a son and sons wife, who all lived together; but when it appeared that the Mr Martin, who bore a part in the narrative, and was always mentioned with approbation for his great goodnature in doing something or other, was a single man; that there was no young Mrs Martin, no wife in the case; she did suspect danger to her poor little friend from all this hospitality and kindness, and that, if she were not taken care of, she might be required to sink herself forever.
dickens|The young lady, my good sir, said Mr Lorry, mildly tapping the Stryver arm, the young lady.
dickens|I think, Charles, poor Mr Carton deserves more consideration and respect than you expressed for him tonight.
dickens|Something of the awfulness, even of Death itself, is referable to this.
austen|Her heart did whisper that he had done it for her.
dickens|I thanked her heartily, and I thanked him heartily, but said I could not yet make sure of joining him as he so kindly offered.
austen|Her daughters were eagerly called to partake of her joy.
austen|And is such a girl to be my nephews sister?
dickens|Nephew, I believebut in any case degenerate successorof the polished Marquis who was murdered, said one.
austen|I have gone too far already for concealment.
dickens|With some money down, I replied, for an uneasy remembrance shot across me of that symmetrical bundle of papers at homewith some money down, and perhaps some anticipation of my expectations.
austen|Haggerston has our directions, and all will be completed in a week.
dickens|The fact is, I have been out on your account,not that that is any excuse,for I thought, coming from the country, you might like a little fruit after dinner, and I went to Covent Garden Market to get it good.
dickens|Looking that way, Mr Cruncher made out that some kind of funeral was coming along, and that there was popular objection to this funeral, which engendered uproar.
austen|My dearest Emma, do not pretend, with your sweet temper, to understand a bad one, or to lay down rules for it you must let it go its own way.
austen|Though her manner varied, however, her determination never did.
austen|Believe me, my dear Miss Elizabeth, that your modesty, so far from doing you any disservice, rather adds to your other perfections.
austen|Her heart was grieved for a state which seemed but the more pitiable from this sort of irritation of spirits, inconsistency of action, and inequality of powers; and it mortified her that she was given so little credit for proper feeling, or esteemed so little worthy as a friend but she had the consolation of knowing that her intentions were good, and of being able to say to herself, that could Mr Knightley have been privy to all her attempts of assisting Jane Fairfax, could he even have seen into her heart, he would not, on this occasion, have found any thing to reprove.
austen|Mr Perry is not gone.
dickens|He motioned with the hand he had extended, and it seemed to be an appeal to Darnay to pause.
austen|Dont disturb him.
dickens|Two or three.
austen|We are going to Box Hill tomorrow;you will join us.
dickens|Hundred and twentythree pound, fifteen, six.
dickens|It is easy to foresee that the pretence will be the common one, a prison plot, and that it will involve her lifeand perhaps her childsand perhaps her fathersfor both have been seen with her at that place.
dickens|If he should turn to, and beat her  Surely, I interrupted, with a burning face and heart, you do not seriously think that he is scoundrel enough for that, Mr Jaggers?
dickens|Ah, said he, shaking his head gravely.
austen|Mr Frank Churchill to be making such a speech as that to the uncle and aunt, who have brought him up, and are to provide for him!
dickens|This description must be received with a weekday limitation.
dickens|Miss, if the poor lady had suffered so intensely before her little child was born, that she came to the determination of sparing the poor child the inheritance of any part of the agony she had known the pains of, by rearing her in the belief that her father was deadNo, dont kneel!
dickens|Still.
austen|Depend upon mebut ask no more questions.
austen|she was as grateful as possible, you may be sure.
dickens|I adopted her, to be loved.
austen|The looking over his letter again, in replying to it, had such a softening tendency, that it was particularly necessary to brace her up with a few decisive expressions; and she was so very much concerned at the idea of making him unhappy, and thought so much of what his mother and sisters would think and say, and was so anxious that they should not fancy her ungrateful, that Emma believed if the young man had come in her way at that moment, he would have been accepted after all.
dickens|A numerous medley of men and women, not to mention beasts and vehicles of various sorts, was waiting to issue forth; but, the previous identification was so strict, that they filtered through the barrier very slowly.
dickens|So, I rubbed it off with all possible speed by turning into a street where I saw the great black dome of Saint Pauls bulging at me from behind a grim stone building which a bystander said was Newgate Prison.
dickens|Of his own desire?
austen|It was natural for him to feel that he had cause to sigh.
dickens|I must say again, nonsense, nonsense!
austen|I doubted her affection.
dickens|Under those circumstances even, I do not offer my testimony.
austen|If so, you must extend your suspicions and comprehend Mr.
dickens|Take him past that window, and let me see him.
austen|They were forced to conclude that he had no pleasing intelligence to send; but even of that they would have been glad to be certain.
dickens|Its bad about here, I told him.
austen|She soon resolved, equally as a duty and a pleasure, to employ half an hour of this holiday of spirits in calling on Miss Fairfax.
austen|Thats a consideration indeed.
austen|You must learn some of my philosophy.
austen|Referring the education to her seemed to imply it.
austen|Upon my word, Caroline, I should think it more possible to get Pemberley by purchase than by imitation.
dickens|Aha, a perfect Frenchman!
dickens|It was very cold, and, a collier coming by us, with her galleyfire smoking and flaring, looked like a comfortable home.
austen|No sacrifice on any side worth the name.
dickens|And as such, quoth Mr Lorry, whom the counsel learned in the law had now shouldered back into the group, just as he had previously shouldered him out of itas such I will appeal to Doctor Manette, to break up this conference and order us all to our homes.
austen|They never could have been all three together, without her having stabbed Jane Fairfaxs peace in a thousand instances; and on Box Hill, perhaps, it had been the agony of a mind that would bear no more.
dickens|A faint murmur arose about the house from the few people who were left there, and there was a saddling of a horse and riding away.
austen|Yes, said Jane, we heard his kind offers, we heard every thing.
austen|She wished she might be able to keep him from an absolute declaration.
austen|my dear sir, as my mother says, our friends are only too good to us.
austen|Oh, said I, my dear, I did say as much as I could.
dickens|Not in the wineshop did Madame Defarge confer with these ministers, but in the shed of the woodsawyer, erst a mender of roads.
dickens|I beat the prison dust off my feet as I sauntered to and fro, and I shook it out of my dress, and I exhaled its air from my lungs.
dickens|He was quiet and attentive; watched the opening proceedings with a grave interest; and stood with his hands resting on the slab of wood before him, so composedly, that they had not displaced a leaf of the herbs with which it was strewn.
austen|But Lizzy!
dickens|Twice, I could have sworn there was a knocking and whispering at the outer door.
austen|It was short, but expressed good sense, warm attachment, liberality, propriety, even delicacy of feeling.
dickens|Well, Joseph Gargery?
dickens|Mr Pumblechooks own room was given up to me to dress in, and was decorated with clean towels expressly for the event.
austen|After playing some Italian songs, Miss Bingley varied the charm by a lively Scotch air; and soon afterwards Mr Darcy, drawing near Elizabeth, said to her  Do not you feel a great inclination, Miss Bennet, to seize such an opportunity of dancing a reel?
austen|I shall be glad to have the library to myself as soon as may be.
dickens|You must know Tellsons Bank in London.
dickens|I asked leave to teach myself, and I got it with much difficulty after a long while, and I have made shoes ever since.
austen|You are determined to ruin him in the opinion of all his friends, and make him the contempt of the world.
dickens|By the cathedral door, said Miss Pross.
austen|We have heard only twice.
austen|And for a little while she hoped he would not talk of it, and that a silent rumination might suffice to restore him to the relish of his own smooth gruel.
austen|Mr Darcy is not so well worth listening to as his friend, is he?
dickens|I had never thought of being ashamed of my hands before; but I began to consider them a very indifferent pair.
dickens|But not to an Englishman; to one who, like herself, is French by birth.
dickens|If, as a honest tradesman, my wenturs goes wrong tonight, I shall make sure that youve been praying again me, and I shall work you for it just the same as if I seen you do it.
dickens|Why?
dickens|You know, Doctor, that it is among the Rights of these Nobles to harness us common dogs to carts, and drive us.
dickens|I may mention at once that this became an annual custom.
austen|I do not mind his not talking to Mrs Long, said Miss Lucas, but I wish he had danced with Eliza.
dickens|I am here!
dickens|A dread possessed me that when I least expected it, the file would reappear.
dickens|While it was preparing, I went to Satis House and inquired for Miss Havisham; she was still very ill, though considered something better.
austen|Miss Fairfax was not well enough to write;  and when Mr Perry called at Hartfield, the same morning, it appeared that she was so much indisposed as to have been visited, though against her own consent, by himself, and that she was suffering under severe headaches, and a nervous fever to a degree, which made him doubt the possibility of her going to Mrs Smallridges at the time proposed.
austen|The expression of his face changed gradually from indignant contempt to a composed and steady gravity.
austen|Jane went to him instantly, kissed him, and thanked him for his goodness.
dickens|O, look at her, look at her!
dickens|He lowered the window, and looked out at the rising sun.
dickens|Her husband smoked at his door, looking after her with admiration.
dickens|I am going to Paris on business.
austen|I wish you may not catch cold.
dickens|They tell me so.
dickens|And I know what that is to do, though I cant say Ive exactly done it.
austen|You were mentioning May.
dickens|Fully.
dickens|said madame, composed as ever, but not knitting today.
dickens|Yes.
austen|I suppose you have heard of the handsome letter Mr Frank Churchill has written to Mrs Weston?
dickens|Compeyson.
dickens|Upon which, every man looked at his neighbour, and then all cast down their eyes and sat silent.
austen|The charming Augusta Hawkins, in addition to all the usual advantages of perfect beauty and merit, was in possession of an independent fortune, of so many thousands as would always be called ten; a point of some dignity, as well as some convenience the story told well; he had not thrown himself awayhe had gained a woman of 10,000 l.
dickens|There had been shrieks from among the women convicts; but they had been stilled, and a hush had succeeded.
dickens|Yes, sir.
dickens|Very good.
dickens|If so be as youre quick, sir.
austen|Well, sir, cried Mr Weston, as I took Miss Taylor away, it is incumbent on me to supply her place, if I can; and I will step to Mrs Goddard in a moment, if you wish it.
dickens|So like Matthew!
austen|Neither wine nor conversation was any thing to him; and gladly did he move to those with whom he was always comfortable.
dickens|After some cogitation, accompanied with an intent look at his patron, Mr Cruncher conceived the luminous idea of replying, Agicultooral character.
austen|Well, if you give me such kind encouragement, Mr Elton, I believe I shall try what I can do.
dickens|Ill put your body in the kiln,Id carry two such to it, on my Shoulders,and, let people suppose what they may of you, they shall never know nothing.
austen|It was impossible to say how much he should be gratified by being employed on such an errand.
austen|But everybody is to judge for themselves, and the Lucases are a very good sort of girls, I assure you.
austen|What is Mr Darcy to me, pray, that I should be afraid of him?
austen|Jane was therefore obliged to go on horseback, and her mother attended her to the door with many cheerful prognostics of a bad day.
austen|She was his object, and every body must perceive it.
austen|Elizabeth honestly and heartily expressed her delight in the prospect of their relationship.
dickens|Yes, sir, if the weather holds and the wind sets tolerable fair.
dickens|That alone wouldnt make the subject pleasant, I should think.
dickens|The Doctor knew, that up to that time, his imprisonment had been associated in the minds of his daughter and his friend, with his personal affliction, deprivation, and weakness.
dickens|Those rooms are all in disorder, there has been hurried packing, there are odds and ends upon the ground.
dickens|Are infants to be nutcrackered into their tombs, and is nobody to save them?
dickens|Now, you shall see me walk back by myself.
dickens|The table was comfortably laidno silver in the service, of courseand at the side of his chair was a capacious dumbwaiter, with a variety of bottles and decanters on it, and four dishes of fruit for dessert.
dickens|I should think not!
dickens|The room was lighted as of yore, and at the sound of our entrance, she stopped and turned.
austen|Jane now came up.
austen|This would not do; she immediately stopped, under pretence of having some alteration to make in the lacing of her halfboot, and stooping down in complete occupation of the footpath, begged them to have the goodness to walk on, and she would follow in half a minute.
austen|Believe me, sir, I am far, very far, from gratified in being the object of such professions.
austen|I talked about the dance, and you ought to make some sort of remark on the size of the room, or the number of couples.
dickens|For instance  For instance, returned Madame Defarge, composedly, shrouds.
austen|yeshe replied; I was just going to mention it.
dickens|Doctor Manette sat meditating after these earnest words were spoken, and Mr Lorry did not press him.
dickens|As to the future, said the Doctor, recovering firmness, I should have great hope.
dickens|Hah!
dickens|Then, he took up the candle, and, shading it with his murderous hand so as to throw its light on me, stood before me, looking at me and enjoying the sight.
dickens|No, no, I answered, how can you think so, Miss Havisham!
austen|She was sorry that Mr Darcy should have delivered his sentiments in a manner so little suited to recommend them; but still more was she grieved for the unhappiness which her sisters refusal must have given him.
dickens|The joy attended Mr Wopsle through his struggle with Laertes on the brink of the orchestra and the grave, and slackened no more until he had tumbled the king off the kitchentable, and had died by inches from the ankles upward.
austen|my poor dear child, the truth is, that in London it is always a sickly season.
austen|But upon my honour, there seems no limits to the licentiousness of that womans tongue!
dickens|said Miss Pross; and Mr Lorry left off.
dickens|Take him, and I can bear it better, for your sake!
dickens|Speak the truth, you ingrate!
dickens|Look at it.
austen|It is very odd, but I cannot recollect.
dickens|How much do you want?
austen|Pray, dear Miss Woodhouse, tell me what I ought to do.
dickens|But we considered ourselves well off, notwithstanding, for a more solitary place we could not have found.
dickens|I go so far as to say, miss, moreover, proceeded Mr Cruncher, with a most alarming tendency to hold forth as from a pulpitand let my words be took down and took to Mrs Cruncher through yourselfthat wot my opinions respectin flopping has undergone a change, and that wot I only hope with all my heart as Mrs Cruncher may be a flopping at the present time.
dickens|What have I done!
austen|Compressed into the very lowest vacant corner were these wordsI had not a spare moment on Tuesday, as you know, for Miss Woodhouses beautiful little friend.
austen|More is avowedly due to her.
austen|And there are several of the young men, too, that she likes very much.
austen|Mr Westonlaughing affectedly I must protest against that.
dickens|Begging your pardon, maam, returned the housemaid, I should wish to speak at once, and to speak to master.
dickens|I never saw the mode.
dickens|I was about to excuse myself, as being but a bad companion just then, when Wemmick anticipated me.
austen|He spoke of it as a certain event, of which the time alone could be undecided.
dickens|Sometimes, a strong mans hand, sometimes a strong mans breast, was set against my mouth to deaden my cries, and with a hot breath always close to me, I struggled ineffectually in the dark, while I was fastened tight to the wall.
dickens|Love her, love her, love her!
dickens|A few minutes brought them to Mr Lorrys destination.
austen|He said nothing worth hearinglooked without seeingadmired without intelligencelistened without knowing what she said.
dickens|What is the debt?
austen|She perfectly remembered everything that had passed in conversation between Wickham and herself, in their first evening at Mr Phillipss.
austen|But Elizabeth had sources of uneasiness which could not be suspected by Jane, to whom she had never yet had courage to shew Mrs Gardiners letter, or to relate her own change of sentiment towards him.
austen|Mr Perry has been with her, as you probably heard.
dickens|You cannot answer this.
dickens|It cant be supposed, said Joe.
austen|I can much more easily believe Mr Bingleys being imposed on, than that Mr Wickham should invent such a history of himself as he gave me last night; names, facts, everything mentioned without ceremony.
austen|said he directly, there is nothing in the way of fruit half so good, and these are the finestlooking homebaked apples I ever saw in my life.
dickens|It was so emphatically a fallen sporta something, once innocent, delivered over to all devilrya healthy pastime changed into a means of angering the blood, bewildering the senses, and steeling the heart.
austen|Poor Mr Woodhouse little suspected what was plotting against him in the breast of that man whom he was so cordially welcoming, and so anxiously hoping might not have taken cold from his ride.
austen|She was disappointed, and angry with herself for being so.
dickens|My Bill, sir!
austen|He did trace them easily to Clapham, but no further; for on entering that place, they removed into a hackney coach, and dismissed the chaise that brought them from Epsom.
dickens|Sydney Carton.
dickens|A bad business this, madame, of Gaspards execution.
dickens|A carriage with posthorses was ready at the Bank door, and Jerry was booted and equipped.
austen|She had not at first thought very seriously of going thither; but Charlotte, she soon found, was depending on the plan and she gradually learned to consider it herself with greater pleasure as well as greater certainty.
dickens|They shall be yourn, dear boy, if money can buy em.
austen|Elizabeth took up some needlework, and was sufficiently amused in attending to what passed between Darcy and his companion.
austen|I am sorry to have occasioned pain to anyone.
austen|Where I sit is of no consequence.
dickens|Unbelieving Philosophers who were remodelling the world with words, and making cardtowers of Babel to scale the skies with, talked with Unbelieving Chemists who had an eye on the transmutation of metals, at this wonderful gathering accumulated by Monseigneur.
dickens|Less than two pipes.
dickens|When we had completed these preparations, they drove up, wrapped to the eyes.
dickens|Ill go round to the others in the course of the day and destroy the notes, said Wemmick; its a good rule never to leave documentary evidence if you can help it, because you dont know when it may be put in.
austen|It will be the object of all my thoughts and cares!
dickens|It was dreadful to go in at the door again; but, she did go in, and even went near it, to get the bonnet and other things that she must wear.
dickens|And here he wrote a poor physician.
dickens|Estella was the next to break the silence that ensued between us.
dickens|And yours will be there!
dickens|As he had shown no diffidence on the subject, I ventured on the liberty of asking him the question, when he stood before me, dusting his hands.
dickens|He had rolled a handkerchief round his head, and his face was set and lowering in his sleep.
austen|He saw no fault in the room, he would acknowledge none which they suggested.
austen|Encouragement should be given.
austen|He had induced her to place herself, for his sake, in a situation of extreme difficulty and uneasiness, and it should have been his first object to prevent her from suffering unnecessarily.
dickens|If you should then be dissatisfied with it, you can but test its soundness for yourself; if, on the other hand, you should be satisfied with it, and it should be what it now is, it may spare all sides what is best spared.
dickens|No Estella.
austen|You may readily comprehend, she added, what my curiosity must be to know how a person unconnected with any of us, and comparatively speaking a stranger to our family, should have been amongst you at such a time.
dickens|The end of the second book.
dickens|My memory is still accurate, but I cannot write the words of our conversation.
dickens|Mr Barsad, now in the employ of the republican French government, was formerly in the employ of the aristocratic English government, the enemy of France and freedom.
austen|Seriously, I would have you be on your guard.
austen|Family pride, and filial pridefor he is very proud of what his father washave done this.
dickens|I had thought of him more than once.
austen|I do not believe I did you any good.
austen|It has been coming on so gradually, that I hardly know when it began.
austen|She was more disturbed by Mr Knightleys not dancing than by any thing else.
dickens|We want to know something about that manand about you.
dickens|This was very disagreeable to a guilty mind.
dickens|I have no hope of its being untrue, but at least I may verify it.
austen|Why was the evil so dreadfully increased by Harriets having some hope of a return?
dickens|Wemmick replied, I dont know her story,that is, I dont know all of it.
austen|My aunt, she continued, is going tomorrow into that part of the town, and I shall take the opportunity of calling in Grosvenor Street.
austen|If you were never particularly struck by her manners before, said she, I think you will today.
dickens|Yes, my Lord.
dickens|Mind you, Mr Pip, said Wemmick, gravely in my ear, as he took my arm to be more confidential; I dont know that Mr Jaggers does a better thing than the way in which he keeps himself so high.
austen|And this is always the way with him, she added.
austen|Elizabeth was surprised, but agreed to it immediately.
dickens|And yet I could not trace this to Miss Havisham.
dickens|Pause you who read this, and think for a moment of the long chain of iron or gold, of thorns or flowers, that would never have bound you, but for the formation of the first link on one memorable day.
dickens|He had been more than five hours gone where could he be?
austen|The general prejudice against Mr Darcy is so violent, that it would be the death of half the good people in Meryton to attempt to place him in an amiable light.
dickens|I have no feeling either way.
austen|Oh!
austen|And, indeed, though my mothers eyes are not so good as they were, she can see amazingly well still, thank God!
austen|She could not but recall the attempt with great satisfaction.
dickens|I begin to think, said Estella, in a musing way, after another moment of calm wonder, that I almost understand how this comes about.
dickens|said Mr Lorry.
dickens|The two were kept apart, and each walked surrounded by a separate guard.
dickens|Both these heads of information were in a list that Magwitch, while in prison, gave to Mr Jaggers, of the possessions he supposed I should inherit.
austen|It seems like madness!
austen|She was out; and I felt it impossible not to wait till she came in.
austen|I leave an excellent substitute in my daughter.
dickens|And so have you, sir.
austen|Mr Frank Churchill and Miss Woodhouse flirted together excessively.
austen|With great energy; but it is always a subject which makes a lady energetic.
dickens|Rain was really falling in large drops, and he showed the back of his hand with raindrops on it.
austen|But now we may be silent.
austen|He had just read Eltons letter as I was shewn in, and handed it to me directly.
austen|I rather wonder now at your knowing any.
austen|It is very plain that he considers the good fortune of the engagement as all on my side, but that he is not without hope of my growing, in time, as worthy of your affection, as you think me already.
dickens|When she spoke to him, he listened, and in due course answered, but never looked at her, that I could see.
dickens|Perfectly still and silent, and not even fallen back in her chair, she sat under his hand, utterly insensible; with her eyes open and fixed upon him, and with that last expression looking as if it were carved or branded into her forehead.
dickens|Mr Cruncher was out of spirits, and out of temper, and kept an iron potlid by him as a projectile for the correction of Mrs Cruncher, in case he should observe any symptoms of her saying Grace.
dickens|I took him.
dickens|Let our good friend here, assist you on that side.
austen|And to propose that she and I should unite to form a musical club!
austen|Mrs Bennet was really in a most pitiable state.
austen|At present, there was nothing to be done for Harriet; good wishes for the future were all that could yet be possible on Emmas side.
austen|I am sure there is not on his.
dickens|But happening to look up at Mrs Pocket as she sat reading her book of dignities after prescribing Bed as a sovereign remedy for baby, I thoughtWellNo, I wouldnt.
dickens|You are a philosopher, you there, said the Marquis, smiling.
austen|What do you mean, Hill?
austen|That will make your ladyships situation at present more pitiable; but it will have no effect on me.
austen|I must think your language too strong in speaking of both, replied Jane; and I hope you will be convinced of it by seeing them happy together.
dickens|I know your engagements, said he, and I know you are out of sorts, Mr Pip.
dickens|Your age, Evremonde?
austen|I have written to Colonel Forster, to inform him of our present arrangements, and to request that he will satisfy the various creditors of Mr Wickham in and near Brighton, with assurances of speedy payment, for which I have pledged myself.
dickens|I well understand that, even if Miss Manette held me at this moment in her innocent heartdo not think I have the presumption to assume so muchI could retain no place in it against her love for her father.
austen|I am so happy!
dickens|It was as late as seven oclock when he awoke refreshed, and went out into the streets again.
austen|cried Elizabeth; but how could that be?
austen|Engaged since October,secretly engaged.
austen|Before Emma had forfeited her confidence, and about the third time of their meeting, she heard all Mrs Eltons knighterrantry on the subject.
dickens|Her chest had dropped, so that she stooped; and her voice had dropped, so that she spoke low, and with a dead lull upon her; altogether, she had the appearance of having dropped body and soul, within and without, under the weight of a crushing blow.
dickens|The patient was a woman of great beauty, and young; assuredly not much past twenty.
dickens|She was in her chair near the old table, in the old dress, with her two hands crossed on her stick, her chin resting on them, and her eyes on the fire.
dickens|Are you capable of forming any plan, my dear good Mr Cruncher?
dickens|And she might credit it.
austen|Elizabeth looked archly, and turned away.
dickens|You have never told me when you have got your hair cut, but I have had senses to perceive it.
dickens|I have observed her today, and I have observed her other days.
dickens|Now, Mr Pip,  said Wemmick, triumphantly shouldering the fishingrod as we came out, let me ask you whether anybody would suppose this to be a weddingparty!
dickens|When my lips had parted, and had shaped some words that were without sound, I forced myself to tell him though I could not do it distinctly, that I had been chosen to succeed to some property.
austen|Emma turned round to look at her in consternation, and hastily said,  Have you any idea of Mr Knightleys returning your affection?
dickens|I would not have been the cause of that look of hers for all my expectations in a heap.
austen|Jane pictured to herself a happy evening in the society of her two friends, and the attentions of their brother; and Elizabeth thought with pleasure of dancing a great deal with Mr Wickham, and of seeing a confirmation of everything in Mr Darcys look and behaviour.
dickens|But I told him, after a little meditation over the fire, that I would like to ask him a question, subject to his answering or not answering, as he deemed right, and sure that his course would be right.
dickens|I am the resurrection and the life, saith the Lord he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live and whosoever liveth and believeth in me, shall never die.
dickens|Possibly, but indeed I dont know, although they stood whispering very near to me because they stood at the top of the cabin steps to have the light of the lamp that was hanging there; it was a dull lamp, and they spoke very low, and I did not hear what they said, and saw only that they looked at papers.
dickens|Their three heads had been close together during this brief discourse, and it had been as much as they could do to hear one another, even then so tremendous was the noise of the living ocean, in its irruption into the Fortress, and its inundation of the courts and passages and staircases.
dickens|We shall never understand each other.
austen|The tone implied some old acquaintanceand how could she possibly guess?
dickens|Were there any other passengers in the mail?
austen|I had imagined him, I confess, a degree or two nearer gentility.
dickens|Such ample leisure had the stone faces, now, for listening to the trees and to the fountain, that the few village scarecrows who, in their quest for herbs to eat and fragments of dead stick to burn, strayed within sight of the great stone courtyard and terrace staircase, had it borne in upon their starved fancy that the expression of the faces was altered.
austen|It was an evening of no common delight to them all; the satisfaction of Miss Bennets mind gave a glow of such sweet animation to her face, as made her look handsomer than ever.
austen|I am sure she saw me, but she looked away directly, and took no notice; and they both went to quite the farther end of the shop; and I kept sitting near the door!
dickens|On a certain occasion when the Finches were assembled in force, and when good feeling was being promoted in the usual manner by nobodys agreeing with anybody else, the presiding Finch called the Grove to order, forasmuch as Mr Drummle had not yet toasted a lady; which, according to the solemn constitution of the society, it was the brutes turn to do that day.
dickens|He added that he did not pretend to say what he might or might not have done to Compeyson, but that, in the moment of his laying his hand on his cloak to identify him, that villain had staggered up and staggered back, and they had both gone overboard together, when the sudden wrenching of him Magwitch out of our boat, and the endeavor of his captor to keep him in it, had capsized us.
dickens|We all began to think Mr Wopsle full of subterfuge.
dickens|You are Doctor Manette?
austen|Miss Woodhouse, must you be going?
austen|She is abominably rude to keep Charlotte out of doors in all this wind.
austen|Emma and Harriet went together; Miss Bates and her niece, with the Eltons; the gentlemen on horseback.
dickens|Yes, Miss Havisham.
austen|The affection, which he had been asking to be allowed to create, if he could, was already his!
dickens|I thought that with her I could have been happy there for life.
austen|If you should have no objection to receive me into your house, I propose myself the satisfaction of waiting on you and your family, Monday, November 18th, by four oclock, and shall probably trespass on your hospitality till the Saturday seennight following, which I can do without any inconvenience, as Lady Catherine is far from objecting to my occasional absence on a Sunday, provided that some other clergyman is engaged to do the duty of the day.
dickens|In the same moment I saw her running at me, shrieking, with a whirl of fire blazing all about her, and soaring at least as many feet above her head as she was high.
dickens|We changed again, and yet again, and it was now too late and too far to go back, and I went on.
dickens|Its the young man!
dickens|I am again at work upon the hillside, and the sun is again about to go to bed.
austen|if I could but play as well as you and Miss Fairfax!
austen|I know you will soon call on her; she is living in dread of the visit.
austen|A man who felt rightly would say at once, simply and resolutely, to Mrs ChurchillEvery sacrifice of mere pleasure you will always find me ready to make to your convenience; but I must go and see my father immediately.
dickens|Understand that!
dickens|Do you seek any guidance from me?
dickens|What would you have?
austen|I saw you first in February.
dickens|Well!
dickens|This part of the Course was usually lightened by several single combats between Biddy and refractory students.
dickens|said Miss Pross, rising to break up the conference; and now we shall have hundreds of people pretty soon!
dickens|Get out of this office.
dickens|I did not.
dickens|Are you scared again?
dickens|At last, I desperately considered that the thing I contemplated must be done, and that it had best be done in the least improbable manner consistent with the circumstances.
austen|But we never did.
austen|You tear them to pieces.
dickens|They passed the day in the country, and the Doctor was quite restored.
austen|It was very wrong of me, you know, to keep any remembrances, after he was married.
dickens|I cant take it.
austen|you wrote her answer too.
austen|I shall be at home in twenty minutes.
dickens|All that waterside region of the upper and lower Pool below Bridge was unknown ground to me; and when I struck down by the river, I found that the spot I wanted was not where I had supposed it to be, and was anything but easy to find.
austen|Mr Elton and I are very good friends, and nothing more; and she walked on, amusing herself in the consideration of the blunders which often arise from a partial knowledge of circumstances, of the mistakes which people of high pretensions to judgment are for ever falling into; and not very well pleased with her brother for imagining her blind and ignorant, and in want of counsel.
austen|When had his influence, such influence begun?
austen|God knows, I have been a very indifferent lover.
austen|Far be it from me, he presently continued, in a voice that marked his displeasure, to resent the behaviour of your daughter.
dickens|said I, gratefully admiring his cheery ways.
austen|Mrs Weston, capital in her countrydances, was seated, and beginning an irresistible waltz; and Frank Churchill, coming up with most becoming gallantry to Emma, had secured her hand, and led her up to the top.
dickens|There had been some light snow, overnight, and it lay nowhere else to my knowledge; but, it had not quite melted from the cold shadow of this bit of garden, and the wind caught it up in little eddies and threw it at the window, as if it pelted me for coming there.
austen|You got Hannah that good place.
austen|Oh!
austen|she added, by far too much.
dickens|So far as it was possible to comprehend him without overstepping those delicate and gradual approaches which Mr Lorry felt to be the only safe advance, he at first supposed that his daughters marriage had taken place yesterday.
dickens|Almost at the first word, Monsieur Defarge started and became deeply attentive.
dickens|Well, sir, pursued Joe, this is how it were.
dickens|Soldiers with lanterns, at the guardhouse there.
dickens|We know, now what you underwent when you suspected my descent, and when you knew it.
dickens|And if my men can bear a hand anywhere, theyll make themselves useful.
austen|Mr Robinsons asking him how he liked our Meryton assemblies, and whether he did not think there were a great many pretty women in the room, and which he thought the prettiest?
austen|She was confident of having performed her duty, and to fret over unavoidable evils, or augment them by anxiety, was no part of her disposition.
austen|My dear, do not give way to such gloomy thoughts.
dickens|We were running too fast to admit of more being said, and we made no stop until we got into our kitchen.
dickens|You are a rich man, upon my life, to waste wages in that way.
austen|I am so pleasedso happy.
dickens|They kept him in a dark place, like a cheese, until he had the full Tellson flavour and bluemould upon him.
austen|I think you are in very great danger of making him as much in love with you as ever.
dickens|We said that as you put it in your pocket very glad to get it, you seemed to be immensely amused at his being so weak as to lend it.
austen|Mrs Weston was exceedingly disappointedmuch more disappointed, in fact, than her husband, though her dependence on seeing the young man had been so much more sober but a sanguine temper, though for ever expecting more good than occurs, does not always pay for its hopes by any proportionate depression.
dickens|Yes; but not only that, said Wemmick, she went into his service immediately after her acquittal, tamed as she is now.
dickens|As often as I caught the younger brothers eyes, their expression reminded me that he disliked me deeply, for knowing what I knew from the boy.
dickens|They told me a curious thing when I was there.
dickens|The people closed round, and looked at Monsieur the Marquis.
austen|Very soon, very soon, indeed; thats the worst of it.
dickens|Never quite free from an uneasy remembrance of the man on the stairs, I had always looked about me in taking my guest out after dark, and in bringing him back; and I looked about me now.
austen|To walk three miles, or four miles, or five miles, or whatever it is, above her ankles in dirt, and alone, quite alone!
dickens|Consequently, I said as little as I could, and had my face shoved against the kitchen wall.
dickens|I have no objections to your mentioning, either up town or down town, if such should be your wishes, that it was right to do it, kind to do it, benevolent to do it, and that I would do it again.
dickens|And now, when they were all in lively anticipation of the two villains being taken, and when the bellows seemed to roar for the fugitives, the fire to flare for them, the smoke to hurry away in pursuit of them, Joe to hammer and clink for them, and all the murky shadows on the wall to shake at them in menace as the blaze rose and sank, and the redhot sparks dropped and died, the pale afternoon outside almost seemed in my pitying young fancy to have turned pale on their account, poor wretches.
austen|He had been sitting with them half an hour, she found.
austen|They then sat down, and when her inquiries after Rosings were made, seemed in danger of sinking into total silence.
dickens|This penalty of being jiggered was a favorite supposititious case of his.
dickens|She will be home directly, and it is better she should not see us together tonight.
dickens|Citizen Defarge, said he to Darnays conductor, as he took a slip of paper to write on.
austen|Emma, why is it that they are your enemies?
dickens|I work pretty hard for a sufficient living, and thereforeyes, I do well.
dickens|Mr Darnay had kissed her hand fervently and gratefully, and had turned to Mr Stryver, whom he warmly thanked.
austen|Bingley likes your sister undoubtedly; but he may never do more than like her, if she does not help him on.
austen|I wish you would try to understand what an amiable young man may be likely to feel in directly opposing those, whom as child and boy he has been looking up to all his life.
dickens|He was taken on board, and instantly manacled at the wrists and ankles.
austen|They have no indoors man, else they do not want for any thing; and Mrs Martin talks of taking a boy another year.
dickens|You will see.
austen|Emma could not have desired a more spirited rejection of Mr Martins prose.
dickens|cried Defarge, in a resounding voice.
austen|It keeps him in good humour, said she, and I am more obliged to you than I can express.
dickens|At such a time I found out for certain that this bleak place overgrown with nettles was the churchyard; and that Philip Pirrip, late of this parish, and also Georgiana wife of the above, were dead and buried; and that Alexander, Bartholomew, Abraham, Tobias, and Roger, infant children of the aforesaid, were also dead and buried; and that the dark flat wilderness beyond the churchyard, intersected with dikes and mounds and gates, with scattered cattle feeding on it, was the marshes; and that the low leaden line beyond was the river; and that the distant savage lair from which the wind was rushing was the sea; and that the small bundle of shivers growing afraid of it all and beginning to cry, was Pip.
dickens|He was perpetually pegging at the floor the moment she left his sight.
dickens|We arrived there at two or three oclock in the afternoon, and had very little way to walk to Mr Pockets house.
dickens|Outoftheway villages there, they tell me.
dickens|And once again listen, Jacques!
austen|but that good Mrs Elton, whose judgment never fails her, saw farther than I did.
dickens|Why, Mr Darnay?
dickens|As a matter of course, they fawned upon me in my prosperity with the basest meanness.
dickens|said my convict, with fierce energy.
dickens|In short, I turned over on my face when I came to that, and got a good grasp on the hair on each side of my head, and wrenched it well.
austen|Maam,  addressing her, do you hear what Miss Woodhouse is so obliging to say about Janes handwriting?
austen|Mr Churchill would never get over it.
austen|And do you really believe the affair to have been carrying on with such perfect secresy?
austen|Not merely when a state of warfare with one young lady might be supposed to recommend the other, but from the very first; and she was not satisfied with expressing a natural and reasonable admirationbut without solicitation, or plea, or privilege, she must be wanting to assist and befriend her.
dickens|Good could never come of such evil, a happier end was not in nature to so unhappy a beginning.
dickens|My dear Handel, Herbert would say to me, in all sincerity, if you will believe me, those very words were on my lips, by a strange coincidence.
dickens|The Treason case.
dickens|Mrs Joe was going to break out, but Joe went on.
austen|What is to become of that?
austen|She could not.
austen|There is no charm equal to tenderness of heart, said she afterwards to herself.
dickens|Ah!
austen|No, Kitty, I have at last learnt to be cautious, and you will feel the effects of it.
dickens|said the messenger, harping on one theme as he rode.
dickens|It was agreed to be done; and a most melancholy day I passed.
austen|But how to break it to her father at last!
austen|Very odd!
dickens|she called to him.
austen|He asked my opinion as to what he was now to do.
austen|One came from her books, and the other from her toilette.
dickens|Good night, Mr Darnay.
austen|They burst on him, I do not know how, but by some letter or messageand it was the discovery of what she was doing, of this very project of hers, which determined him to come forward at once, own it all to his uncle, throw himself on his kindness, and, in short, put an end to the miserable state of concealment that had been carrying on so long.
austen|You are ungrateful.
austen|I know the danger of indulging such speculations.
dickens|To that she emphatically said God forbid!
dickens|Depressed and slinking though they were, eyes of fire were not wanting among them; nor compressed lips, white with what they suppressed; nor foreheads knitted into the likeness of the gallowsrope they mused about enduring, or inflicting.
austen|Jane often says, when she is here, I am sure, grandmama, you must have had very strong eyes to see as you doand so much fine work as you have done too!
austen|She was roused from her seat, and her reflections, by some ones approach; and before she could strike into another path, she was overtaken by Wickham.
dickens|Not a mean village closed upon him, not a common barrier dropped across the road behind him, but he knew it to be another iron door in the series that was barred between him and England.
austen|Jamess.
austen|His aunt was so much better, that he had not a doubt of getting over to them.
dickens|An hour and a half limped heavily away in the thiefandrascal crowded passages below, even though assisted off with mutton pies and ale.
austen|Something has happened to delay her; some visitors perhaps.
austen|Are you so severe upon your own sex as to doubt the possibility of all this?
austen|Though our kind uncle has done something towards clearing him, I cannot believe that ten thousand pounds, or anything like it, has been advanced.
austen|Emma saw him only once; but two or three times every day Harriet was sure just to meet with him, or just to miss him, just to hear his voice, or see his shoulder, just to have something occur to preserve him in her fancy, in all the favouring warmth of surprize and conjecture.
dickens|Mr Wopsle struck in upon that; as one who knew all about relationships, having professional occasion to bear in mind what female relations a man might not marry; and expounded the ties between me and Joe.
dickens|A pause succeeded, during which the honest and irrepressible baby made a series of leaps and crows at little Jane, who appeared to me to be the only member of the family irrespective of servants with whom it had any decided acquaintance.
austen|But of all the views which his garden, or which the country or kingdom could boast, none were to be compared with the prospect of Rosings, afforded by an opening in the trees that bordered the park nearly opposite the front of his house.
austen|It is of all subjects my delight.
dickens|The horses there; are they right?
dickens|Mr Barsad has been recognised by Miss Pross as the affectionate brother you have heard of, said Sydney, and has acknowledged the relationship.
dickens|And of course hes going.
austen|I want to be told whether I ought, or ought not, to make our acquaintances in general understand Wickhams character.
austen|Allowing the case, however, to stand according to your representation, you must remember, Miss Bennet, that the friend who is supposed to desire his return to the house, and the delay of his plan, has merely desired it, asked it without offering one argument in favour of its propriety.
dickens|Why dont you cry again, you little wretch?
dickens|No, Pip.
austen|Pray excuse me; but supposing any little inconvenience may be apprehended from the intimacy, it cannot be expected that Emma, accountable to nobody but her father, who perfectly approves the acquaintance, should put an end to it, so long as it is a source of pleasure to herself.
dickens|Then I said, Before the fire goes out, Joe, I should like to tell you something.
austen|I am glad of one thing, that he comes alone; because we shall see the less of him.
dickens|After looking at her, as if the sound of even a single French word were slow to express itself to him, he answered, in his former strong foreign accent.
dickens|but I pretended not to hear him, and saw that at the side of the house there was a large brewery.
dickens|meaning me.
dickens|When he had made an end of his breakfast, and was wiping his knife on his leg, I said to him, without a word of preface,  After you were gone last night, I told my friend of the struggle that the soldiers found you engaged in on the marshes, when we came up.
dickens|All things, however, were in their places; all was quiet; and he lay asleep, his white hair picturesque on the untroubled pillow, and his hands lying quiet on the coverlet.
dickens|I seemed to have been dozing a whole night when the clocks struck six.
austen|There is my sister; and really quite her own little elegant figure!
dickens|Call wine, wine; and finish there.
dickens|For gracious sake, dont talk about Liberty; we have quite enough of that, said Miss Pross.
austen|However little known the feelings or views of such a man may be on his first entering a neighbourhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds of the surrounding families, that he is considered the rightful property of some one or other of their daughters.
dickens|Was his face at all disfigured?
austen|Now, it so happened that in spite of Emmas resolution of never marrying, there was something in the name, in the idea of Mr Frank Churchill, which always interested her.
dickens|Not long before, I had read in the newspapers, how a gentleman unknown had come to the Hummums in the night, and had gone to bed, and had destroyed himself, and had been found in the morning weltering in blood.
dickens|It happened on the occasion of this visit that some sharp words arose between Estella and Miss Havisham.
dickens|The rider stooped, and, casting up his eyes at the guard, handed the passenger a small folded paper.
dickens|Never?
dickens|I repeatedwhen Herbert murmured in my ear, Probably Wopsle.
dickens|I cant undertake to find third parties in common sense; I can only find it for myself.
dickens|The Revolutionfever will have been too much for him?
dickens|They call me Defarge.
austen|YesI have some right to that knowledge; though I have never been at the place in my life.
austen|And do not you think him a very handsome gentleman, maam?
dickens|Then, I said I supposed he had a fine business, and Wemmick said, Capital!
austen|I comfort myself with thinking, replied Jane, that he certainly would not marry Lydia if he had not a real regard for her.
dickens|Surely thats not his name, Herbert?
dickens|She wish, were Pumblechooks word, to speak to you.
dickens|I am pretty well known.
austen|We were always encouraged to read, and had all the masters that were necessary.
austen|Had not Mrs Weston any letter about her to produce?
dickens|This dilated until it filled the room, and impelled me to take a candle and go in and look at my dreadful burden.
dickens|Environed by them, while the Woodman and the Farmer worked unheeded, those two of the large jaws, and those other two of the plain and the fair faces, trod with stir enough, and carried their divine rights with a high hand.
austen|I do not know any body who draws so well as you do.
dickens|Simple as the furniture was, it was set off by so many little adornments, of no value but for their taste and fancy, that its effect was delightful.
austen|There does seem to be a something in the air of Hartfield which gives love exactly the right direction, and sends it into the very channel where it ought to flow.
austen|This will not do, said Elizabeth; you never will be able to make both of them good for anything.
dickens|It could scarcely be called a trade, in spite of his favourite description of himself as a honest tradesman.
austen|, he must have left a message for you, I am sure he must.
austen|The power of observation would be soon givenfrightfully soon it appeared when her thoughts were in one course.
austen|I felt a little uneasya little fearful of my sisters happiness with him in marriage, because I knew that his conduct had not been always quite right.
austen|If she has fancied otherwise, her own wishes have misled her, and I am very sorryextremely sorryBut, Miss Smith, indeed!
dickens|It seemed to me that we continued thus for a long time.
dickens|There was something wonderfully hopeful about his general air, and something that at the same time whispered to me he would never be very successful or rich.
austen|How is half such a sum to be repaid?
austen|On the contrary, her plans and proceedings were more and more justified and endeared to her by the general appearances of the next few days.
dickens|But it is so very strange!
dickens|Both were bleeding and panting and execrating and struggling; but of course I knew them both directly.
austen|Indeed he has no improper pride.
dickens|Not to mention bearers, all the money that could be spared were wanted for my mother.
austen|But consider your daughters.
austen|Do let us have a little music, cried Miss Bingley, tired of a conversation in which she had no share.
austen|It would be a secret satisfaction; but the consciousness of a similarity of prospect would certainly add to the interest with which she should attend to any thing Jane might communicate.
austen|So prettily done!
dickens|It has more than one, then, miss?
dickens|Ever since he wasno height at all.
austen|Even if this family, the Braithwaites, are put off, I am still afraid that some excuse may be found for disappointing us.
austen|But on the following morning, every hope of this kind was done away.
austen|One morning, about ten days after Mrs Churchills decease, Emma was called downstairs to Mr Weston, who could not stay five minutes, and wanted particularly to speak with her.
austen|There was also a legacy of one thousand pounds.
austen|I know no harm of her.
austen|It was possible, and sometimes she thought it probable, that his affection might be reanimated, and the influence of his friends successfully combated by the more natural influence of Janes attractions.
dickens|They were even boastful of its eminence in those particulars, and were fired by an express conviction that, if it were less objectionable, it would be less respectable.
austen|Mrs Weston was disengaged and Emma began againMr Frank Churchill writes one of the best gentlemans hands I ever saw.
austen|Mr Weston, on his side, added a virtue to the account which must have some weight.
austen|An abominable puppy!
austen|The intimacy between her and Emma must sink; their friendship must change into a calmer sort of goodwill; and, fortunately, what ought to be, and must be, seemed already beginning, and in the most gradual, natural manner.
dickens|Thats all, messieurs.
dickens|But in regard to wisiting Miss Havisham.
austen|The misfortune of Harriets cold had been pretty well gone through before her arrival.
austen|One of them does.
dickens|said the stranger, quickly, and cocking his eye at me.
dickens|I wouldnt lend one of you a sixpence.
austen|That you were gone into the army, and she was afraid hadnot turned out well.
dickens|Come!
dickens|Just now, if at all.
dickens|You are the quickest messenger I know, and will get to Temple Bar long before I can.
dickens|She held it in one hand now, and with the other lightly touched my shoulder as we walked.
dickens|she asked me again, with her witchlike eagerness, even in Estellas hearing.
dickens|I had succeeded on behalf of Herbert, Miss Havisham had told me all she knew of Estella, I had said and done what I could to ease her mind.
dickens|The expression in the forehead, which had so particularly attracted his notice, and which was now immovable, had deepened into one of pain and horror.
dickens|He would not have stopped then, for anything less necessary than breath, it being a spectral sort of race that he ran, and one highly desirable to get to the end of.
austen|To Catherine and Lydia, neither the letter nor its writer were in any degree interesting.
dickens|I dont mean that.
austen|What could he mean by such horrible indelicacy?
dickens|Yes.
austen|She could think of nothing better and though there was something in it which her own heart could not approvesomething of ingratitude, merely glossed overit must be done, or what would become of Harriet?
dickens|Defarge, a weak minority, interposed a few words for the memory of the compassionate wife of the Marquis; but only elicited from his own wife a repetition of her last reply.
austen|She stood several minutes before the picture, in earnest contemplation, and returned to it again before they quitted the gallery.
dickens|Look back, look back, and see if we are pursued!
austen|The bride and her mother could neither of them talk fast enough; and Wickham, who happened to sit near Elizabeth, began inquiring after his acquaintance in that neighbourhood, with a good humoured ease which she felt very unable to equal in her replies.
austen|He could tell her nothing new of the wonders of his presentation and knighthood; and his civilities were worn out, like his information.
dickens|Mr Waldengarver smiled at me, as much as to say a faithful DependentI overlook his folly; and then said aloud, My view is a little classic and thoughtful for them here; but they will improve, they will improve.
dickens|He was detained two hours.
dickens|No, he wouldnt.
dickens|And if, when I shall tell you of my name, and of my father who is living, and of my mother who is dead, you learn that I have to kneel to my honoured father, and implore his pardon for having never for his sake striven all day and lain awake and wept all night, because the love of my poor mother hid his torture from me, weep for it, weep for it!
dickens|Without this arrest of everything, this standing still of all the pale decayed objects, not even the withered bridal dress on the collapsed form could have looked so like graveclothes, or the long veil so like a shroud.
dickens|Or, supposing my own to be four times as much, I would leave a margin, and put them down at seven hundred.
dickens|Do I know her?
austen|Nowhy should he?
austen|Mrs Bennet invited him to dine with them; but, with many expressions of concern, he confessed himself engaged elsewhere.
austen|His doing so drew her notice.
dickens|Thus engaged, with her right elbow supported by her left hand, Madame Defarge said nothing when her lord came in, but coughed just one grain of cough.
austen|Deceived myself, I did very miserably deceive youand it will be a painful reflection to me for ever.
austen|he cried.
austen|They were hopeless of remedy.
austen|I shall now know how to act.
austen|And who but Mr Knightley could know and bear with Mr Woodhouse, so as to make such an arrangement desirable!
austen|she cried with a most open eagernessNever, for the twentieth part of a moment, did such an idea occur to me.
dickens|Have you been here long?
dickens|Show them.
dickens|Because it is decidedly the case with us.
austen|It would have spared her from explanations and professions which it was exceedingly awkward to give; but they were now necessary, and she assured him, with some confusion, of her attachment to Mr Darcy.
austen|If I understand your brother, he only means so far as your having some thoughts of marrying.
dickens|At length, on Sunday night when all the village is asleep, come soldiers, winding down from the prison, and their guns ring on the stones of the little street.
austen|Aye, so it is, cried her mother, and Mrs Long does not come back till the day before; so it will be impossible for her to introduce him, for she will not know him herself.
dickens|Truly, a decree for selling the property of emigrants.
austen|He owed it to her, to risk any thing that might be involved in an unwelcome interference, rather than her welfare; to encounter any thing, rather than the remembrance of neglect in such a cause.
dickens|Looking about him while in this state of suspense, Charles Darnay observed that the gate was held by a mixed guard of soldiers and patriots, the latter far outnumbering the former; and that while ingress into the city for peasants carts bringing in supplies, and for similar traffic and traffickers, was easy enough, egress, even for the homeliest people, was very difficult.
dickens|What he could save for the owners, he saved.
dickens|It will die out, said Monsieur the Marquis, glancing at his hands, directly.
austen|Why, pretty well; but not quite well.
dickens|For when your poor sister had a mind to drop into you, it were not so much, said Joe, in his favorite argumentative way, that she dropped into me too, if I put myself in opposition to her, but that she dropped into you always heavier for it.
austen|Oh well!
austen|How long has she been such a favourite?
dickens|Master Alick and Miss Jane, cried one of the nurses to two of the children, if you go a bouncing up against them bushes youll fall over into the river and be drownded, and whatll your pa say then?
dickens|Casement windows opened, crazy doors were unbarred, and people came forth shiveringchilled, as yet, by the new sweet air.
dickens|Had I given Joes innocent heart no cause to feel instinctively that as I got stronger, his hold upon me would be weaker, and that he had better loosen it in time and let me go, before I plucked myself away?
austen|I must not think of it.
dickens|Whoever came about me, still settled down into Joe.
austen|I bring a new proposal on the subjecta thought of my fathers, which waits only your approbation to be acted upon.
dickens|Let us have a quiet walk on the marshes next Sunday, Biddy, and a long chat.
dickens|If he had shown indifference as a master, I have no doubt I should have returned the compliment as a pupil; he gave me no such excuse, and each of us did the other justice.
austen|Thank you, thank you.
austen|The first wish of my heart, said she to herself, is never more to be in company with either of them.
dickens|Mr Lorry glanced at the work in his hand, and observed that it was a shoe of the old size and shape.
austen|The very last evening was spent there; and her ladyship again inquired minutely into the particulars of their journey, gave them directions as to the best method of packing, and was so urgent on the necessity of placing gowns in the only right way, that Maria thought herself obliged, on her return, to undo all the work of the morning, and pack her trunk afresh.
dickens|Perhaps at my wineshop?
austen|I am sure we do.
dickens|By this time, my sister was quite desperate, so she pounced on Joe, and, taking him by the two whiskers, knocked his head for a little while against the wall behind him, while I sat in the corner, looking guiltily on.
dickens|I trust, and I almost believe, that the circumstances likely to renew it are exhausted.
dickens|Yes, yes, yes, Ill be cautious, said Miss Pross; but I may say among ourselves, that I do hope there will be no oniony and tobaccoey smotherings in the form of embracings all round, going on in the streets.
dickens|Its a sad picter, to reflect that shes no longer equal to fully understanding the honor.
dickens|Upon my life, said Carton, smiling, I find that easier to comprehend in my own mind, than to convey to yours.
austen|Mrs Annesley is with her.
dickens|Do you think I particularly like you?
dickens|It had its poor people too.
austen|You have employed your time much better.
dickens|Perhaps the following silence, perhaps some latent disclosure in the expression of Miss Prosss face, perhaps a sudden misgiving apart from either suggestion, whispered to Madame Defarge that they were gone.
dickens|That, for these reasons, the jury, being a loyal jury as he knew they were, and being a responsible jury as they knew they were, must positively find the prisoner Guilty, and make an end of him, whether they liked it or not.
austen|When they had all talked a little while in harmony of the weather and Mrs Weston, she found herself abruptly addressed with,  Do not you think, Miss Woodhouse, our saucy little friend here is charmingly recovered?
dickens|The room was darkening to his sight; the world was narrowing around him.
dickens|There may be black ingratitude in the thing, and the punishment may be retributive and well deserved; but that it is a miserable thing, I can testify.
dickens|Jacques Three was nearly at his side; Madame Defarge, still heading some of her women, was visible in the inner distance, and her knife was in her hand.
austen|Never, since reading Janes second letter, had she entertained a hope of Wickhams meaning to marry her.
dickens|If you touch, in touching my hair, anything that recalls a beloved head that lay on your breast when you were young and free, weep for it, weep for it!
austen|With my mother up stairs.
dickens|Yes.
austen|We know how little there is to tempt anyone to our humble abode.
dickens|It wore itself out, and wore him out with it, until the Bank closed.
austen|It was, on the contrary, exactly calculated to make her understand her own wishes; and never had she so honestly felt that she could have loved him, as now, when all love must be vain.
dickens|Thereupon, I had brought in all our hammers, one after another, but without avail.
dickens|Are you here for good?
austen|Now do not you feel that you had?
dickens|We shook hands, and he looked hard at me as long as he could see me.
dickens|I judged him to be about my own age, but he was much taller, and he had a way of spinning himself about that was full of appearance.
austen|In this walk Emma and Mr Weston found all the others assembled; and towards this view she immediately perceived Mr Knightley and Harriet distinct from the rest, quietly leading the way.
austen|Indeed I had.
austen|dear, Miss Woodhousewell, at last, I fancy, he looked round and saw me; for instead of going on with her buyings, they began whispering to one another.
dickens|Partly on this account, and partly to avoid a domestic spy, they kept no servant; the citizen and citizeness who acted as porters at the courtyard gate, rendered them occasional service; and Jerry almost wholly transferred to them by Mr Lorry had become their daily retainer, and had his bed there every night.
austen|I dare say we shall be all safe at Hartfield before midnight.
austen|Upon the whole, she was very persuadable; and it being briefly settled among themselves how it might be done without neglecting his comforthow certainly Mrs Goddard, if not Mrs Bates, might be depended on for bearing him companyMr Woodhouse was to be talked into an acquiescence of his daughters going out to dinner on a day now near at hand, and spending the whole evening away from him.
dickens|Dispirited and anxious, long hoping that tomorrow or next week would clear my way, and long disappointed, I sadly missed the cheerful face and ready response of my friend.
austen|Certainly I had been accustomed to every luxury at Maple Grove; but I did assure him that two carriages were not necessary to my happiness, nor were spacious apartments.
dickens|I could trace out where every part of the old house had been, and where the brewery had been, and where the gates, and where the casks.
austen|said she, as they proceededspeaking more to assist Mr Weston in keeping his secret, than with any other view.
dickens|Let it do so.
dickens|Estella told me we were both to go in, so I took Joe by the coatcuff and conducted him into Miss Havishams presence.
dickens|Well, then; dont meditate nothing.
austen|At such a moment, the arrival of her friend was a sincere pleasure to Elizabeth, though in the course of their meetings she must sometimes think the pleasure dearly bought, when she saw Mr Darcy exposed to all the parading and obsequious civility of her husband.
dickens|His fingers is always rusty!
austen|A bride, you know, my dear, is always the first in company, let the others be who they may.
dickens|The gentleman then beckoned to the young lady, and they, too, went out.
dickens|As the sombre wheels of the six carts go round, they seem to plough up a long crooked furrow among the populace in the streets.
dickens|His hair could not have been more violently on end, if it had been that moment dressed by the Cow with the crumpled horn in the house that Jack built.
dickens|After all, the question is still where?
austen|They shew her to the greatest advantage.
austen|Upon the whole, I am much pleased with him.
dickens|May I ask the cause?
austen|I do not know when I have been so disappointed.
dickens|But he is denouncedand gravelyby the Citizen and Citizeness Defarge.
austen|The wretchedness of a scheme to Box Hill was in Emmas thoughts all the evening.
dickens|He had asked me if I was a deceiving imp, and he had said I should be a fierce young hound if I joined the hunt against him.
dickens|Miss Pross was a pleasant sight, albeit wild, and red, and grim, taking off her darlings bonnet when she came upstairs, and touching it up with the ends of her handkerchief, and blowing the dust off it, and folding her mantle ready for laying by, and smoothing her rich hair with as much pride as she could possibly have taken in her own hair if she had been the vainest and handsomest of women.
dickens|The Republic goes before all.
austen|I see what you are feeling, replied Charlotte.
dickens|Well, sir!
dickens|You cant try, Handel?
dickens|Now, pray let us think!
dickens|Poor dear Joe, entangled in a little black cloak tied in a large bow under his chin, was seated apart at the upper end of the room; where, as chief mourner, he had evidently been stationed by Trabb.
austen|Having arranged all these matters, looked them through, and put them all to rights, she was just turning to the house with spirits freshened up for the demands of the two little boys, as well as of their grandpapa, when the great iron sweepgate opened, and two persons entered whom she had never less expected to see togetherFrank Churchill, with Harriet leaning on his armactually Harriet!
austen|Mrs Reynolds then directed their attention to one of Miss Darcy, drawn when she was only eight years old.
dickens|said the landlord.
dickens|Madame Defarge set wine before the mender of roads called Jacques, who doffed his blue cap to the company, and drank.
dickens|We had held this conversation in a low voice, well knowing my guardians ears to be the sharpest of the sharp.
dickens|No wisdom on earth could have given me the comfort that I should have derived from their simplicity and fidelity; but I could never, never, undo what I had done.
austen|They must all go to Brighton.
austen|thought she.
austen|But now she would no longer conceal from her his share in Lydias marriage.
dickens|In as good stead tomorrow as today.
austen|I did not know before, that I had two daughters on the brink of matrimony.
dickens|I dont ask you when you made it up, or where, or whether you made it up at all.
dickens|A singular circumstance then arose in the case.
austen|Colonel Campbell, you know, is quite our angel.
austen|They will read together.
dickens|Not that she showed she was pleased, but I suppose she was.
austen|To Rosings he then hastened, to console Lady Catherine and her daughter; and on his return brought back, with great satisfaction, a message from her ladyship, importing that she felt herself so dull as to make her very desirous of having them all to dine with her.
dickens|If I could have settled down, I said to Biddy, plucking up the short grass within reach, much as I had once upon a time pulled my feelings out of my hair and kicked them into the brewery wall,if I could have settled down and been but half as fond of the forge as I was when I was little, I know it would have been much better for me.
dickens|said the sleeper, rising on his elbow.
austen|To his tacit engagement with Miss de Bourgh?
dickens|Heres the address.
austen|especially with such a groundwork of anticipation as her mind had already made.
dickens|We were so robbed by that man who stands there, as all we common dogs are by those superior Beingstaxed by him without mercy, obliged to work for him without pay, obliged to grind our corn at his mill, obliged to feed scores of his tame birds on our wretched crops, and forbidden for our lives to keep a single tame bird of our own, pillaged and plundered to that degree that when we chanced to have a bit of meat, we ate it in fear, with the door barred and the shutters closed, that his people should not see it and take it from usI say, we were so robbed, and hunted, and were made so poor, that our father told us it was a dreadful thing to bring a child into the world, and that what we should most pray for, was, that our women might be barren and our miserable race die out!
dickens|asked the brisk Young Jerry.
austen|Short of that, it is all guess and luckand will generally be illluck.
austen|I only hope they may have half my good luck.
dickens|How much of the incompleteness of his situation was referable to her father, through the painful anxiety to avoid reviving old associations of France in his mind, he did not discuss with himself.
dickens|She had not quite finished dressing, for she had but one shoe on,the other was on the table near her hand,her veil was but half arranged, her watch and chain were not put on, and some lace for her bosom lay with those trinkets, and with her handkerchief, and gloves, and some flowers, and a PrayerBook all confusedly heaped about the lookingglass.
austen|He then told her of Georgianas delight in her acquaintance, and of her disappointment at its sudden interruption; which naturally leading to the cause of that interruption, she soon learnt that his resolution of following her from Derbyshire in quest of her sister had been formed before he quitted the inn, and that his gravity and thoughtfulness there had arisen from no other struggles than what such a purpose must comprehend.
dickens|It is just the time, said I.
austen|If they had uncles enough to fill all Cheapside, cried Bingley, it would not make them one jot less agreeable.
dickens|All this he did, methodically, and with as loud and harsh an accompaniment of noise as he could make.
austen|Oh!
dickens|For there was something very comfortable in having plenty of stationery.
austen|Dining out, said Mrs Bennet, that is very unlucky.
austen|I can have no selfcommand without a motive.
dickens|Jerry, if you wish to take something to eat, you can.
dickens|Joe offered me more gravy, which I was afraid to take.
dickens|It comes of flowing on so quiet, and of that there rippling at the boats head making a sort of a Sunday tune.
dickens|It would turn a mans blood to white wine winegar to hear him tell of it, sir, said the landlord.
austen|Perhaps she is full young to be much in company.
dickens|I have.
austen|Had you then persuaded yourself that I should?
dickens|On the contrary, it would have been better, for his preservation would then have naturally and tenderly addressed my heart.
dickens|Why do you injuriously introduce the name of my mother by adoption?
austen|At length, however, our kind friend procured the wishedfor direction.
dickens|So was I, Herbert, when the blow first fell.
austen|Mrs Smallridge, too!
dickens|Reaccused and retaken yesterday.
dickens|He was shown upstairs, and found Lucie at her work, alone.
austen|My mothers are really very good indeed.
dickens|and spreading her golden hair aside over her shoulders with great pride and care.
dickens|She then placed herself before the door of the chamber which Lucie had occupied.
austen|Lady Catherine de Bourgh, she replied, has very lately given him a living.
dickens|The interest of the impending pursuit not only absorbed the general attention, but even made my sister liberal.
austen|Dear Lizzy!
dickens|Are you sure, asked Jacques Two, of Defarge, that no embarrassment can arise from our manner of keeping the register?
austen|The subject elevated him to more than usual solemnity of manner, and with a most important aspect he protested that he had never in his life witnessed such behaviour in a person of ranksuch affability and condescension, as he had himself experienced from Lady Catherine.
austen|There must be three months, at least, of deep mourning; but when they are over, I imagine there will be nothing more to wait for.
dickens|I am the resurrection and the life, saith the Lord he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live and whosoever liveth and believeth in me, shall never die.
austen|This is admirable!
dickens|This diverts suspicion and confuses it; and for the same reason I recommended that, even if you came back last night, you should not go home.
austen|I will not tell you what it is.
dickens|As the tall man suddenly got up from the ground, and came running at the carriage, Monsieur the Marquis clapped his hand for an instant on his swordhilt.
dickens|Where could you wait for me?
dickens|Halloa, Mr Pip, said he; how do you do?
dickens|I knew it was Joe, by his clumsy manner of coming upstairs, his state boots being always too big for him,and by the time it took him to read the names on the other floors in the course of his ascent.
austen|I congratulate you, my dear Harriet, with all my heart.
dickens|It was visiting time when Wemmick took me in, and a potman was going his rounds with beer; and the prisoners, behind bars in yards, were buying beer, and talking to friends; and a frowzy, ugly, disorderly, depressing scene it was.
austen|Much, much beyond impropriety!
dickens|And what is the message to the unfortunate Gabelle in prison?
austen|Mr Knightley, a sensible man about seven or eightandthirty, was not only a very old and intimate friend of the family, but particularly connected with it, as the elder brother of Isabellas husband.
austen|Not near so often, my dear, as I could wish.
austen|When a woman has five grownup daughters, she ought to give over thinking of her own beauty.
austen|In talking over their route the evening before, Mrs Gardiner expressed an inclination to see the place again.
austen|She is gone down to her uncle at Liverpool gone to stay.
dickens|They persisted in changing colour sometimes, and they would be occasionally dilated and contracted by something like a faint pulsation; then, they gave a look of treachery, and cruelty, to the whole countenance.
austen|Harriet really wished, and had wished some time, to consult a dentist.
dickens|I beg to observe that I think of myself with amazement, when I recall the lies I told on this occasion.
austen|Not at all.
austen|She was warmly gratifiedand in another moment still more so, by a little movement of more than common friendliness on his part.
austen|Harriet listened, and Emma drew in peace.
austen|At this moment, perhaps, Mr Elton is shewing your picture to his mother and sisters, telling how much more beautiful is the original, and after being asked for it five or six times, allowing them to hear your name, your own dear name.
austen|Till I can forget his father, I can never defy or expose him.
dickens|This was so much her normal state, that Joe and I would often, for weeks together, be, as to our fingers, like monumental Crusaders as to their legs.
dickens|I wish it, that I may the better deserve your confidence, and have no secret from you.
austen|Mrs Goddards school was in high reputeand very deservedly; for Highbury was reckoned a particularly healthy spot she had an ample house and garden, gave the children plenty of wholesome food, let them run about a great deal in the summer, and in winter dressed their chilblains with her own hands.
dickens|Even when we were groping among Mr Jaggerss stock of boots for our hats, I felt that the right twin was on his way back; and we had not gone half a dozen yards down Gerrard Street in the Walworth direction, before I found that I was walking arm in arm with the right twin, and that the wrong twin had evaporated into the evening air.
dickens|Will you take charge of the letter?
austen|I will invite your guests.
dickens|Not that a gentleman like you, so well set up as you, cant win em off of his own game; but money shall back you!
austen|Whatever he might afterwards persuade her to, it was not on her side a scheme of infamy.
austen|They had just been preparing to walk as the letters came in; and her uncle and aunt, leaving her to enjoy them in quiet, set off by themselves.
dickens|It was a consequence of his hurt that he spoke so low as to be scarcely audible; therefore he spoke very little.
dickens|Then both voices would seem to be stifled in a struggle, and then would break out again.
austen|Was it a new circumstance for a man of firstrate abilities to be captivated by very inferior powers?
dickens|It commanded the causeway where we had hauled up our boat, and, as my eyes adapted themselves to the light of the clouded moon, I saw two men looking into her.
austen|She believed he was reckoned a very fine young man.
austen|Emmas very good opinion of Frank Churchill was a little shaken the following day, by hearing that he was gone off to London, merely to have his hair cut.
dickens|Would you?
dickens|Presently I saw his blue lips again, breathing on the tinder, and then a flare of light flashed up, and showed me Orlick.
austen|A crowd in a little roomMiss Woodhouse, you have the art of giving pictures in a few words.
dickens|If you had been born such, would you have been here now?
dickens|said Biddy.
austen|But Emmas wonder lessened soon afterwards, on seeing Mr Elton sauntering about.
austen|You are very obliging to say such thingsbut certainly not.
dickens|Compeyson, he looks at me very noticing, and I look at him.
austen|They are ripening fast.
austen|She had hoped for an answer herefor a few words to say that her conduct was at least intelligible; but he was silent; and, as far as she could judge, deep in thought.
dickens|I know why, said the Jack.
dickens|Now, I saw the damp lying on the bare hedges and spare grass, like a coarser sort of spiders webs; hanging itself from twig to twig and blade to blade.
austen|Am I to suppose then?
dickens|It wouldnt do for you, Jerry.
austen|Pray, my dear aunt, what is the difference in matrimonial affairs, between the mercenary and the prudent motive?
dickens|Upon that, I turned down the long passage which I had first trodden in my thick boots, and he made his bell sound.
dickens|Put it on, put it on, said the other.
austen|Where features were indifferent, a fine complexion gave beauty to them all; and where they were good, the effect wasfortunately he need not attempt to describe what the effect was.
austen|I have spent four days in the same house with him, and I think him very disagreeable.
dickens|There were four in the room, and she shut them all.
dickens|Her fathers only answer was to draw his hands through his white hair, and wring them with a shriek of anguish.
austen|Whenever she is with us, Mrs Cole does not know how to shew her kindness enough; and I must say that Jane deserves it as much as any body can.
dickens|Never mind the season; dont you think it might be a good thing if you began at once to keep a boat at the Temple stairs, and were in the habit of rowing up and down the river?
dickens|Dont say any more, if you please, Biddy.
austen|Such a dreadful broiling morning!
austen|And, without love, I am sure I should be a fool to change such a situation as mine.
austen|When they ascended the steps to the hall, Marias alarm was every moment increasing, and even Sir William did not look perfectly calm.
dickens|O you enemy!
austen|I remember one evening the poor boys saying, Uncle seems always tired now.
dickens|At length the sun rose so high that it struck a kindly ray as of hope or protection, directly down upon the old prisoners head.
dickens|She could never deliver me; I imagined that she always brought me back after showing me such things.
dickens|The less it was occupied with healthy things, the more it would be in danger of turning in the unhealthy direction.
austen|I am ashamed of you!
austen|Had he begun as he ought, there would have been no difficulty now.
austen|Exactly so.
austen|Yet the misery, for which years of happiness were to offer no compensation, received soon afterwards material relief, from observing how much the beauty of her sister rekindled the admiration of her former lover.
austen|Elizabeth tried to be diverted by them; but all sense of pleasure was lost in shame.
austen|She would keep the peace if possible; and there was something honourable and valuable in the strong domestic habits, the allsufficiency of home to himself, whence resulted her brothers disposition to look down on the common rate of social intercourse, and those to whom it was important.
austen|She was nobody when he married her, barely the daughter of a gentleman; but ever since her being turned into a Churchill she has outChurchilld them all in high and mighty claims but in herself, I assure you, she is an upstart.
austen|said he, taking the letter from his pocket.
dickens|Do you?
austen|oh!
austen|He joined them on their entering the town, and attended them to their aunts where his regret and vexation, and the concern of everybody, was well talked over.
dickens|It is necessary to register him.
austen|Every thing that I have said or done, for many weeks past, has been with the sole view of marking my adoration of yourself.
dickens|There was another blank silence before her father rejoined  I believe it.
dickens|Miss Pross had nothing beautiful about her; years had not tamed the wildness, or softened the grimness, of her appearance; but, she too was a determined woman in her different way, and she measured Madame Defarge with her eyes, every inch.
dickens|She has a husband, a father, and a brother?
austen|But, on second thoughts, perhaps, Lizzy could tell us what relations he has now living, better than any other person.
dickens|He had no occasion to say after that that he had conceived an aversion for my patron, neither had I occasion to confess my own.
austen|Their conversation was soon afterwards closed by the entrance of her father.
austen|Harriet was one of those, who, having once begun, would be always in love.
austen|That is, I always had a strong persuasion he would be here again soon, I was sure something favourable would turn upbut nobody believed me.
dickens|Why, see now!
dickens|Thankee, said he; then well consider that its to come off, when convenient to you.
dickens|said I.
austen|I dare not let my mother know how little she eatsso I say one thing and then I say another, and it passes off.
austen|Oh!
austen|Her ladyship seemed pleased with the idea; and you may imagine that I am happy on every occasion to offer those little delicate compliments which are always acceptable to ladies.
austen|nothing could be clearer.
dickens|I am glad to see you all.
dickens|Its a gloomy thing, however, to talk about ones own past, with the day breaking.
dickens|When the teatable was done with, they all moved to one of the windows, and looked out into the heavy twilight.
dickens|I think in my seventh year.
dickens|Of all the people upon earth, you least expected to see me?
austen|Only think what an establishment it would be for one of them.
dickens|Where are the papers of this prisoner?
dickens|But answer the question, said Mr Jaggers.
dickens|Leave that teapot alone.
austen|To the little town of Lambton, the scene of Mrs Gardiners former residence, and where she had lately learned some acquaintance still remained, they bent their steps, after having seen all the principal wonders of the country; and within five miles of Lambton, Elizabeth found from her aunt that Pemberley was situated.
austen|The wisest and the best of mennay, the wisest and best of their actionsmay be rendered ridiculous by a person whose first object in life is a joke.
austen|Mr Darcy had at first scarcely allowed her to be pretty; he had looked at her without admiration at the ball; and when they next met, he looked at her only to criticise.
austen|for she is to be three months with us at least.
dickens|Biddy!
austen|and she and her partner the happiest!
dickens|The guard, the coachman, and the two other passengers eyed him distrustfully.
austen|I do suspect he would not have had a pair of horses for himself, and that it was only as an excuse for assisting them.
austen|At another time Emma might have been amused, but she was too much astonished now at Mr Eltons spirits for other feelings.
dickens|I had supposed that it must be latent in the people somewhere; but, I had never seen it break out, until I saw it in the dying boy.
austen|A man must be very much in love, indeed, to describe her so.
dickens|asked my guardian.
dickens|Oh, look at it, look at it!
dickens|I say a horse at a gallop, Tom, returned the guard, leaving his hold of the door, and mounting nimbly to his place.
austen|I will leave him to himself.
dickens|Pretending to read a smeary newspaper long out of date, which had nothing half so legible in its local news, as the foreign matter of coffee, pickles, fish sauces, gravy, melted butter, and wine with which it was sprinkled all over, as if it had taken the measles in a highly irregular form, I sat at my table while he stood before the fire.
dickens|But, perhaps the confidential bachelor clerks in Tellsons Bank were principally occupied with the cares of other people; and perhaps secondhand cares, like secondhand clothes, come easily off and on.
austen|She has a fault.
dickens|When I told him No, he said she must have gone down then, and yet she took up too, when she left there.
austen|I am very much obliged to you, said Emma, laughing again.
dickens|Occasionally, a stray workman putting his coat on, traversed the hall, or a stranger peered about there, or a distant clink was heard across the courtyard, or a thump from the golden giant.
austen|Words were insufficient for the elevation of his feelings; and he was obliged to walk about the room, while Elizabeth tried to unite civility and truth in a few short sentences.
dickens|I have no remembrance of the process.
austen|Elizabeth said as little to either as civility would allow, and sat down again to her work, with an eagerness which it did not often command.
austen|They were of a respectable family in the north of England; a circumstance more deeply impressed on their memories than that their brothers fortune and their own had been acquired by trade.
dickens|The words were still in his hearing as just spokendistinctly in his hearing as ever spoken words had been in his lifewhen the weary passenger started to the consciousness of daylight, and found that the shadows of the night were gone.
dickens|Indeed?
austen|And not only was there time for these convictions, with all their glow of attendant happiness; there was time also to rejoice that Harriets secret had not escaped her, and to resolve that it need not, and should not.
dickens|My friend is dead, my neighbour is dead, my love, the darling of my soul, is dead; it is the inexorable consolidation and perpetuation of the secret that was always in that individuality, and which I shall carry in mine to my lifes end.
austen|Her situation was altogether the subject of hours of gratitude to Mrs Weston, and of moments only of regret; and her satisfactionher more than satisfactionher cheerful enjoyment, was so just and so apparent, that Emma, well as she knew her father, was sometimes taken by surprize at his being still able to pity poor Miss Taylor, when they left her at Randalls in the centre of every domestic comfort, or saw her go away in the evening attended by her pleasant husband to a carriage of her own.
austen|What is there of good to be expected?
austen|he must tell her; and Miss Bates being present, it passed, of course, to Mrs Cole, Mrs Perry, and Mrs Elton, immediately afterwards.
austen|While they were thus comfortably occupied, Mr Woodhouse was enjoying a full flow of happy regrets and fearful affection with his daughter.
dickens|cried Jerry.
austen|Pemberley was now Georgianas home; and the attachment of the sisters was exactly what Darcy had hoped to see.
dickens|My dear!
austen|I am sure of having their opinions with me.
austen|As far as good intentions went, we were both right, and I must say that no effects on my side of the argument have yet proved wrong.
dickens|I did not expect to see this in you.
dickens|Some pitying hand may find it there, when I and my sorrows are dust.
dickens|Therefore, I made no remark on Joes first head; merely saying as to his second, that the tidings had indeed come suddenly, but that I had always wanted to be a gentleman, and had often and often speculated on what I would do, if I were one.
austen|I should like to know how he behaves among strangers.
dickens|Have you quite forgotten her?
austen|There were few people on whose secrecy she would have more confidently depended; but, at the same time, there was no one whose knowledge of a sisters frailty would have mortified her so muchnot, however, from any fear of disadvantage from it individually to herself, for, at any rate, there seemed a gulf impassable between them.
austen|He called it, therefore, his duty to step forward, and endeavour to remedy an evil which had been brought on by himself.
austen|Your list of the common extent of accomplishments, said Darcy, has too much truth.
dickens|Though Heaven knows they never did by word or sign.
dickens|I choose them as real men, of my nameJacques is my nameto whom the sight is likely to do good.
austen|Nonsense, how can you talk so!
austen|But they did pass away, and Mr and Mrs Gardiner, with their four children, did at length appear at Longbourn.
austen|Her daughters listened in silence to this effusion, sensible that any attempt to reason with her or soothe her would only increase the irritation.
austen|But, luckily, he came back again in ten minutes time, and then we all set out.
dickens|For the moment.
austen|My dear Harriet, I perfectly remember the substance of what I said on the occasion.
dickens|Those venerable and feeble persons were always seen by the public in the act of bowing, and were popularly believed, when they had bowed a customer out, still to keep on bowing in the empty office until they bowed another customer in.
dickens|We all began to suspect that Mr Wopsle was not the man we had thought him, and that he was beginning to be found out.
dickens|Do you wish to come in?
austen|cried he.
austen|His appearance was very neat, and he looked like a sensible young man, but his person had no other advantage; and when he came to be contrasted with gentlemen, she thought he must lose all the ground he had gained in Harriets inclination.
austen|To know that she had the power of revealing what would so exceedingly astonish Jane, and must, at the same time, so highly gratify whatever of her own vanity she had not yet been able to reason away, was such a temptation to openness as nothing could have conquered but the state of indecision in which she remained as to the extent of what she should communicate; and her fear, if she once entered on the subject, of being hurried into repeating something of Bingley which might only grieve her sister further.
austen|Mrs Bates and Mrs Elton were together.
austen|Nobody could have helped it.
austen|As they drove to Mr Gardiners door, Jane was at a drawingroom window watching their arrival; when they entered the passage she was there to welcome them, and Elizabeth, looking earnestly in her face, was pleased to see it healthful and lovely as ever.
austen|How trifling they make every thing else appear!
dickens|To go back now ud be as bad as to stand groundworse.
dickens|In order, however, that our superior position might not be compromised thereby, a moneybox was kept on the kitchen mantelshelf, into which it was publicly made known that all my earnings were dropped.
austen|Emma longed to know what Franks first opinion of Mrs Elton might be; how he was affected by the studied elegance of her dress, and her smiles of graciousness.
austen|Georgianas reception of them was very civil, but attended with all the embarrassment which, though proceeding from shyness and the fear of doing wrong, would easily give to those who felt themselves inferior the belief of her being proud and reserved.
austen|Did not think him at all in lovenot in the least.
dickens|Itll stick somewhere.
dickens|Im so frightened!
dickens|Thats business, said Mr Lorry, resuming on the shortest notice his methodical manners; and if business is to be done, I had better do it.
dickens|That, in the first frantic greetings lavished on himself as a notable sufferer under the overthrown system, it had been accorded to him to have Charles Darnay brought before the lawless Court, and examined.
dickens|I called to Herbert and Startop to keep before the tide, that she might see us lying by for her, and I adjured Provis to sit quite still, wrapped in his cloak.
austen|They were more disturbed, more unequal, than she had often seen them.
dickens|Is it Havisham or?
dickens|What, said Carton, still only half turned towards him, do you expect, Mr Darnay?
austen|Perhaps she might have passed over more had his manners been flattering to Isabellas sister, but they were only those of a calmly kind brother and friend, without praise and without blindness; but hardly any degree of personal compliment could have made her regardless of that greatest fault of all in her eyes which he sometimes fell into, the want of respectful forbearance towards her father.
austen|I would not recommend an egg boiled by any body else; but you need not be afraid, they are very small, you seeone of our small eggs will not hurt you.
austen|but their removing from the chaise into a hackney coach is such a presumption!
dickens|I want to know what you make it.
austen|Your own excellent senseyour exertions for your fathers sakeI know you will not allow yourself.
dickens|Except in my bad side of human nature, murmured Biddy.
dickens|What toast?
dickens|Two things I can tell you, said Estella.
austen|Mr Darcy is engaged to my daughter.
austen|While there was an officer in Meryton, they would flirt with him; and while Meryton was within a walk of Longbourn, they would be going there forever.
austen|As she had heard no carriage, she thought it not unlikely to be Lady Catherine, and under that apprehension was putting away her halffinished letter that she might escape all impertinent questions, when the door opened, and, to her very great surprise, Mr Darcy, and Mr Darcy only, entered the room.
dickens|There he was, and there was the decree; he had been taken in France, and his head was demanded.
dickens|Miscreant Foulon taken, my daughter!
dickens|My sister catching him in the act, he drew the back of his hand across his nose with his usual conciliatory air on such occasions, and looked at her.
austen|Do you think I am right?
austen|I entreat you not to suppose that I moved this way in order to beg for a partner.
dickens|Next day was appointed for the production lest our honor should take cold from delay, and next day Drummle appeared with a polite little avowal in Estellas hand, that she had had the honor of dancing with him several times.
dickens|I entreat you to tell me more, sir.
dickens|said Monsieur Defarge, looking down at the white head that bent low over the shoemaking.
austen|Where Miss Taylor failed to stimulate, I may safely affirm that Harriet Smith will do nothing.
dickens|Name the price that you put your prayers at!
austen|I should like to know how many of all my numerous engagements take place without your being of the party; and why I am to be supposed in danger of wanting leisure to attend to the little boys.
dickens|Still there was no answer, and I knocked again.
austen|But I am willing to hope the best, and that his character has been misunderstood.
dickens|I am afraid you wont leave any of it for him, said I, timidly; after a silence during which I had hesitated as to the politeness of making the remark.
dickens|said he.
austen|But in those who are at all inferior, it is extremely prepossessing.
dickens|he growled, where are you two going?
austen|He may live in my memory as the most amiable man of my acquaintance, but that is all.
dickens|I communicate to him that secret.
dickens|I tried to collect my thoughts, but I was stunned.
austen|There was a something in her countenance which made him listen with an apprehensive and anxious attention, while she added  When I said that he improved on acquaintance, I did not mean that his mind or his manners were in a state of improvement, but that, from knowing him better, his disposition was better understood.
dickens|The five had had, it is true, no audience to lengthen their proceedings, for when he and Doctor Manette emerged from the gate, there was a great crowd about it, in which there seemed to be every face he had seen in Courtexcept two, for which he looked in vain.
austen|His companions suggested only what could palliate imprudence, or smooth objections; and by the time they had talked it all over together, and he had talked it all over again with Emma, in their walk back to Hartfield, he was become perfectly reconciled, and not far from thinking it the very best thing that Frank could possibly have done.
austen|It has been my own doing, and I ought to feel it.
austen|That was your name for him, was it?
dickens|Biddy nodded her head thoughtfully at the fire as she took up her work again, and said she would be very particular; and Joe, still detaining his knees, said, Ay, ay, Ill be ekervally partickler, Pip; and then they congratulated me again, and went on to express so much wonder at the notion of my being a gentleman that I didnt half like it.
dickens|Long after I ought to have heard it, and long after I had fancied I heard it and found it but a fancy, all was still.
dickens|Go and sit down this instant!
dickens|No.
dickens|From the farmergeneral of seventy, whose riches could not buy his life, to the seamstress of twenty, whose poverty and obscurity could not save her.
austen|Her home and her housekeeping, her parish and her poultry, and all their dependent concerns, had not yet lost their charms.
dickens|He was in his usual morning dress, and his face which Mr Lorry could distinctly see, though still very pale, was calmly studious and attentive.
dickens|I think you have got the ague, said I.
dickens|This is to tell him you are there.
dickens|Oh!
austen|Yes, said Emma, I hope I do.
austen|A very successful visitI saw all the three ladies; and felt very much obliged to you for your preparatory hint.
dickens|Yes, she had sent for me on a trial visit, and if I had come out of it successfully, I suppose I should have been provided for; perhaps I should have been whatyoumaycalled it to Estella.
dickens|Now, lift me up, Doctor; lift me up.
austen|He ought not to have formed the engagement.
austen|That you certainly shall.
dickens|On the stairs I encountered Wemmick, who was coming down, after an unsuccessful application of his knuckles to my door.
austen|Emma could say no more.
dickens|Other lots were marked off on other parts of the structure, and the ivy had been torn down to make room for the inscriptions, and much of it trailed low in the dust and was withered already.
austen|And soon afterwards, Jane Fairfax is a very charming young womanbut not even Jane Fairfax is perfect.
austen|And then not to find him at home!
austen|looking round with the most goodhumoured dependence on every bodys assentDo not you all think I shall?
dickens|Plenty of subjects going about, for them that know how to put salt upon their tails.
dickens|Will you cause that to be done for me?
dickens|You have it.
austen|Another time, Lizzy, said her mother, I would not dance with him, if I were you.
austen|The rest of the gentlemen being now in the room, Emma found herself obliged to turn from him for a few minutes, and listen to Mr Cole.
austen|Harriet must give us as much of her company as she can while my brother and sister are here.
dickens|Ill pull him down, like a bloodhound.
dickens|But there is nothing.
austen|There were several very pretty houses in and about it.
austen|was not that her own doing too?
austen|snows a little I see.
austen|The fact was, as Emma could now acknowledge, that Harriet had always liked Robert Martin; and that his continuing to love her had been irresistible.
dickens|Many a night and many a day had its inmates listened to the echoes in the corner, with hearts that failed them when they heard the thronging feet.
dickens|Of Richmond, gentlemen, said Drummle, putting me out of the question, and a peerless beauty.
dickens|There were not so many papers about, as I should have expected to see; and there were some odd objects about, that I should not have expected to see,such as an old rusty pistol, a sword in a scabbard, several strangelooking boxes and packages, and two dreadful casts on a shelf, of faces peculiarly swollen, and twitchy about the nose.
dickens|Now, from the days when it was always summer in Eden, to these days when it is mostly winter in fallen latitudes, the world of a man has invariably gone one wayCharles Darnays waythe way of the love of a woman.
austen|But may we not hope that the period of future happiness to which Miss Bingley looks forward may arrive earlier than she is aware, and that the delightful intercourse you have known as friends will be renewed with yet greater satisfaction as sisters?
austen|Lydia does not leave me because she is married, but only because her husbands regiment happens to be so far off.
dickens|My sister stood out for property.
dickens|I fear not yet.
austen|Absence, with the conviction probably of her indifference, had produced this very natural and very desirable effect.
dickens|Sydney Carton looked at his punch and looked at his complacent friend; drank his punch and looked at his complacent friend.
dickens|May you and me do our duty, both on us, by one and another, and by them which your liberal presenthaveconweyedto befor the satisfaction of mindofthem as never here Joe showed that he felt he had fallen into frightful difficulties, until he triumphantly rescued himself with the words, and from myself far be it!
austen|Mrs Gardiner had seen Pemberley, and known the late Mr Darcy by character perfectly well.
austen|Dont say I was cross.
austen|I inquired after their brother, of course.
austen|The satisfaction of prevailing on one of the most worthless young men in Great Britain to be her husband might then have rested in its proper place.
austen|He deserves to be publicly disgraced.
dickens|They are mounting up, Handel, Herbert would say; upon my life, they are mounting up.
dickens|For the fugitive out on the marshes with the ironed leg, the mysterious young man, the file, the food, and the dreadful pledge I was under to commit a larceny on those sheltering premises, rose before me in the avenging coals.
dickens|Theres the roll of them dreadful carts!
austen|It was generally evident whenever they met, that he did admire her and to her it was equally evident that Jane was yielding to the preference which she had begun to entertain for him from the first, and was in a way to be very much in love; but she considered with pleasure that it was not likely to be discovered by the world in general, since Jane united, with great strength of feeling, a composure of temper and a uniform cheerfulness of manner which would guard her from the suspicions of the impertinent.
austen|I am sure I would not have such a creature as his Harry stand at our sideboard for any consideration.
austen|such an openness and gentleness in his manner!
dickens|You go to the Court tomorrow?
austen|It is hotter today.
dickens|There he is, you see!
dickens|But ask yourself the question now.
dickens|But the life I lead, Miss Manette, is not conducive to health.
dickens|Do you know where you saw it afore?
austen|Oh!
austen|He bore it with noble indifference, and she would have imagined that Bingley had received his sanction to be happy, had she not seen his eyes likewise turned towards Mr Darcy, with an expression of halflaughing alarm.
austen|After a mutual silence of some minutes, Harriet thus began again  I do so wonder, Miss Woodhouse, that you should not be married, or going to be married!
austen|Weston may grow cross from the wantonness of comfort, or his son may plague him.
dickens|She had reasons for believing that there was a young sister living, and her greatest desire was, to help that sister.
dickens|Consequence, my father didnt make objections to my going to work; so I went to work at my present calling, which were his too, if he would have followed it, and I worked tolerable hard, I assure you, Pip.
dickens|Yet, what I suffered outside was nothing to what I underwent within.
austen|Perfect happiness, even in memory, is not common; and there were two points on which she was not quite easy.
austen|Mary was the only daughter who remained at home; and she was necessarily drawn from the pursuit of accomplishments by Mrs Bennets being quite unable to sit alone.
dickens|I looked at both of them.
dickens|You will not be the cause of my becoming worse.
austen|I am delighted to hear you speak so stoutly on the subject, replied Emma, smiling; but you do not mean to deny that there was a timeand not very distant eitherwhen you gave me reason to understand that you did care about him?
dickens|Also, I see that they are covered with dust, and that the dust moves with them as they come, tramp, tramp!
dickens|She had moved from the wall of the garret, very near to the bench on which he sat.
austen|She had many acquaintance in the place, for her father was universally civil, but not one among them who could be accepted in lieu of Miss Taylor for even half a day.
dickens|Diwisions among such must come, and must be met as they come.
austen|To his wife he was very little otherwise indebted, than as her ignorance and folly had contributed to his amusement.
dickens|At the rate of, sir?
dickens|Magnificent!
dickens|All I possess is freely yours.
dickens|You have seen him at work?
dickens|cried Young Jerry.
austen|He seems perfectly unprepared for that.
austen|But in spite of the certainty in which Elizabeth affected to place this point, as well as the still more interesting one of Bingleys being withheld from seeing Jane, she felt a solicitude on the subject which convinced her, on examination, that she did not consider it entirely hopeless.
dickens|You remember coming up here?
dickens|A man with no hat, and with broken shoes, and with an old rag tied round his head.
dickens|I had thought a prayer, and had been with Joe and Biddy and Herbert, before he turned towards me again.
dickens|At last, when the night was slow to creep on towards two oclock, I felt that I absolutely could no longer bear the place as a place to lie down in, and that I must get up.
austen|But if it be only a slight, thin sort of inclination, I am convinced that one good sonnet will starve it entirely away.
dickens|Ask who is arrived.
austen|A Mrs Knightley for them all to give way to!
austen|It did not accord with the rationality of plan, the moderation in expense, or even the unselfish warmth of heart, which she had believed herself to discern in him yesterday.
dickens|Choking and boiling as I was, I felt that we could not go a word further, without introducing Estellas name, which I could not endure to hear him utter; and therefore I looked stonily at the opposite wall, as if there were no one present, and forced myself to silence.
dickens|He is not here, I said, supporting the boy, and thinking that he referred to the brother.
austen|engaged to Mr Darcy!
austen|The easy assurance of the young couple, indeed, was enough to provoke him.
dickens|I am going to live, said she, at a great expense, with a lady there, who has the poweror says she hasof taking me about, and introducing me, and showing people to me and showing me to people.
austen|The farewell between herself and Mr Wickham was perfectly friendly; on his side even more.
austen|He had never heard of such books before I mentioned them, but he is determined to get them now as soon as ever he can.
dickens|Bah!
austen|She has two nieces of her own.
austen|The Gardiners stayed only one night at Longbourn, and set off the next morning with Elizabeth in pursuit of novelty and amusement.
austen|Mr Knightley soon saw that he had lost his moment, and that not another syllable of communication could rest with him.
dickens|How well you look!
dickens|Now, Molly, Molly, Molly, Molly, how slow you are today!
austen|Your profusion makes me saving; and if you lament over him much longer, my heart will be as light as a feather.
dickens|They had not made the round of their changed life many weeks, when her father said to her, on coming home one evening  My dear, there is an upper window in the prison, to which Charles can sometimes gain access at three in the afternoon.
dickens|Well, but I mean a fourfooted Squeaker, said Mr Pumblechook.
austen|But perhaps, added he, stopping in his walk, and turning towards her, these offenses might have been overlooked, had not your pride been hurt by my honest confession of the scruples that had long prevented my forming any serious design.
dickens|And she ant over partial to having scholars on the premises, Joe continued, and in partickler would not be over partial to my being a scholar, for fear as I might rise.
dickens|News from the other world!
dickens|your mothers a nice woman, young Jerry, going a praying agin your fathers prosperity.
dickens|I was your first teacher though; wasnt I?
dickens|No doubt my jealousy made an admirer of every one who went near her; but there were more than enough of them without that.
dickens|These people hated me with the hatred of cupidity and disappointment.
austen|This was too loud a call for a compliment to be passed by, and Mr Weston, with a very good grace, immediately exclaimed,  My dear madam!
dickens|Then my sister sealed them up in a piece of paper, and put them under some dried roseleaves in an ornamental teapot on the top of a press in the state parlor.
dickens|I asked him if he had ever seen Miss Havishams adopted daughter, Mrs Bentley Drummle.
dickens|First, he took the two secret men.
dickens|Another clerk was rung down from upstairs to take his place while he was out, and I accompanied him into the street, after shaking hands with my guardian.
austen|When is your next ball to be, Lizzy?
dickens|So wicked do destruction and secrecy appear to honest minds, that Mr Lorry and Miss Pross, while engaged in the commission of their deed and in the removal of its traces, almost felt, and almost looked, like accomplices in a horrible crime.
austen|Some part of his conduct we cannot excuse.
dickens|It was not so much a reproach as an irresistible thinking aloud.
austen|I shall write to Mrs Partridge in a day or two, and shall give her a strict charge to be on the lookout for any thing eligible.
austen|You are so much used to live alone, that you do not know the value of a companion; and, perhaps no man can be a good judge of the comfort a woman feels in the society of one of her own sex, after being used to it all her life.
dickens|My glance had fallen, but a few moments before, on the fragments of a broken sword, lying among the hay.
austen|Jane looked at Elizabeth with surprise and concern.
austen|I have been silent from surprize merely, excessive surprize.
dickens|Here, an excited woman screeched from the crowd You were one of the best patriots there.
austen|I often feel concern, said she, that I dare not make our carriage more useful on such occasions.
austen|His extreme attention to my motherwanting her to sit in the vicarage pew, that she might hear the better, for my mother is a little deaf, you knowit is not much, but she does not hear quite quick.
austen|Were you often in the same society?
austen|After mentioning the likelihood of this marriage to her ladyship last night, she immediately, with her usual condescension, expressed what she felt on the occasion; when it became apparent, that on the score of some family objections on the part of my cousin, she would never give her consent to what she termed so disgraceful a match.
dickens|returned the Jack.
austen|Every moment had brought a fresh surprize; and every surprize must be matter of humiliation to her.
dickens|Why, the deed may not have merited quite so terrible a name,  said Herbert, but, she was tried for it, and Mr Jaggers defended her, and the reputation of that defence first made his name known to Provis.
austen|And yet it is formal.
austen|It was too early in the morning for visitors, and besides, the equipage did not answer to that of any of their neighbours.
austen|I have the greatest dislike in the world to that sort of thing.
austen|So much in love as to wish to marry her in spite of all the objections which had made him prevent his friends marrying her sister, and which must appear at least with equal force in his own casewas almost incredible!
dickens|She saw a tight, hard, wiry woman before her, as Mr Lorry had seen in the same figure a woman with a strong hand, in the years gone by.
austen|He certainly might have heard Mr Elton speak with more unreserve than she had ever done, and Mr Elton might not be of an imprudent, inconsiderate disposition as to money matters; he might naturally be rather attentive than otherwise to them; but then, Mr Knightley did not make due allowance for the influence of a strong passion at war with all interested motives.
dickens|Had made some little stir in a certain part of the world where a good many people go, not always in gratification of their own inclinations, and not quite irrespective of the government expense  In watching his face, I made quite a firework of the Ageds sausage, and greatly discomposed both my own attention and Wemmicks; for which I apologized.
dickens|Now, did you not think so?
austen|No, my dear, said her father instantly; that I am sure you are not.
austen|There is nothing extravagant in their housekeeping, I dare say.
austen|Mrs Weston was acting no part, feigning no feelings in all that she said to him in favour of the event.
austen|You laugh at me about William Larkins; but I could quite as ill spare Robert Martin.
austen|I am sure it was a consolation to you.
dickens|Oh no he wont, said my guardian, making his pockethandkerchiefpoint, with perfect confidence; I should like to see him argue the question with me.
dickens|Well, returned Mr Cruncher, going on again, and lifting off his hat to give his spikes free play, hes a tradesman.
austen|But what are you in doubt of?
austen|A younger son, you know, must be inured to selfdenial and dependence.
austen|The house, furniture, neighbourhood, and roads, were all to her taste, and Lady Catherines behaviour was most friendly and obliging.
austen|Do not run away with such an idea.
dickens|said Flopson, appearing to think it most surprising.
austen|Why should they try to influence him?
austen|You know I always speak my mind, and I cannot bear the idea of two young women travelling post by themselves.
dickens|As he shook his heavy hand at me, with his mouth snarling like a tigers, I felt that it was true.
austen|I remember saying to myself, Even Emma, with all her partiality for Harriet, will think this a good match.
dickens|With no more definite purpose than to escape the hazard of originating any other kind of action.
dickens|Dont look so horrified.
austen|Among those who are at all his equals in consequence, he is a very different man from what he is to the less prosperous.
dickens|There is a certain tutor, of whom I have some knowledge, who I think might suit the purpose, said Mr Jaggers.
austen|They agree with me in apprehending that this false step in one daughter will be injurious to the fortunes of all the others; for who, as Lady Catherine herself condescendingly says, will connect themselves with such a family?
dickens|Perfectly.
austen|It was very natural for you to say, what right has he to lecture me?
austen|His situation is an evilbut you must consider it as what satisfies your friend; and I will answer for your thinking better and better of him as you know him more.
austen|He wished the road might be impassable, that he might be able to keep them all at Randalls; and with the utmost goodwill was sure that accommodation might be found for every body, calling on his wife to agree with him, that with a little contrivance, every body might be lodged, which she hardly knew how to do, from the consciousness of there being but two spare rooms in the house.
austen|Her pale face and impetuous manner made him start, and before he could recover himself to speak, she, in whose mind every idea was superseded by Lydias situation, hastily exclaimed, I beg your pardon, but I must leave you.
austen|Well, Monday morning came, and I was in such a fuss!
austen|This made a difficulty.
dickens|And when I says to Compeyson, Once out of this court, Ill smash that face of yourn!
austen|She spoke then, on being so entreated.
austen|The picture which she had then drawn of the privations of the approaching winter, had proved erroneous; no friends had deserted them, no pleasures had been lost.
dickens|Go on!
dickens|When he had once more laughed heartily, he became meek again, and told me that the moment he began to realize Capital, it was his intention to marry this young lady.
austen|She certainly had not been in the wrong, and he would never own that he had.
dickens|Presently, the dock became the central point of interest.
dickens|Surrender, you two!
austen|He is comeMr Bingley is come.
austen|that isso very friendly; I mean good Mr Perry!
dickens|When the evidence was giv in the box, I noticed how it was always me that had come forard, and could be swore to, how it was always me that the money had been paid to, how it was always me that had seemed to work the thing and get the profit.
austen|That it would be done with such trifling exertion on his side, too, was another very welcome surprise; for his wish at present was to have as little trouble in the business as possible.
dickens|Joe looked at me for a single instant with something faintly like reproach.
austen|Jane was as much gratified by this as her mother could be, though in a quieter way.
austen|Supposing him to be attached to me, would my refusing to accept his hand make him wish to bestow it on his cousin?
dickens|This new life of the Doctors was an anxious life, no doubt; still, the sagacious Mr Lorry saw that there was a new sustaining pride in it.
austen|Oh!
dickens|There was a murmur of commiseration as Charles Darnay crossed the room to a grated door where the gaoler awaited him, and many voicesamong which, the soft and compassionate voices of women were conspicuousgave him good wishes and encouragement.
dickens|Do you see nothing that he might do, under the disappointment?
dickens|said I.
dickens|Do what he would, behind the little counter, as to the striking of a light and the lighting of his pipe, he was troubled, and his hand was not trustworthy.
dickens|Mr Lorrys eyes were again attracted to his face.
austen|If that had been nearer, she would not have gone so soon.
austen|How little did you tell me of what passed at Pemberley and Lambton!
dickens|At my own writingtable, pushed into a corner and cumbered with little bottles, Joe now sat down to his great work, first choosing a pen from the pentray as if it were a chest of large tools, and tucking up his sleeves as if he were going to wield a crowbar or sledgehammer.
austen|Upon my word, Mr E.
dickens|The old man uttered an irrepressible cry.
dickens|The man who had left his saw sticking in the firewood he was cutting, set it in motion again; the women who had left on a doorstep the little pot of hot ashes, at which she had been trying to soften the pain in her own starved fingers and toes, or in those of her child, returned to it; men with bare arms, matted locks, and cadaverous faces, who had emerged into the winter light from cellars, moved away, to descend again; and a gloom gathered on the scene that appeared more natural to it than sunshine.
dickens|Charles.
dickens|You said just now that Estella was not related to Miss Havisham, but adopted.
austen|And are they upon such terms as for her to disclose the real truth?
dickens|It might, said the servile Pumblechook, putting down his untasted glass in a hurry and getting up again, to a common person, have the appearance of repeatingbut may I?
dickens|Whereas, the portable property certainly could have been saved.
austen|There was no want of likeness, she had been fortunate in the attitude, and as she meant to throw in a little improvement to the figure, to give a little more height, and considerably more elegance, she had great confidence of its being in every way a pretty drawing at last, and of its filling its destined place with credit to them botha standing memorial of the beauty of one, the skill of the other, and the friendship of both; with as many other agreeable associations as Mr Eltons very promising attachment was likely to add.
austen|You want your neighbours opinions.
dickens|Carton was the first stranger to whom little Lucie held out her chubby arms, and he kept his place with her as she grew.
dickens|Undoubtedly it was.
dickens|It must be an immense satisfaction!
austen|Not that I have much pleasure, indeed, in talking to anybody.
austen|Think she must of the possible difference to the poor little boy; and yet she only gave herself a saucy conscious smile about it, and found amusement in detecting the real cause of that violent dislike of Mr Knightleys marrying Jane Fairfax, or any body else, which at the time she had wholly imputed to the amiable solicitude of the sister and the aunt.
dickens|Time presses I must finish those shoes.
dickens|Whenever that undecided Prince had to ask a question or state a doubt, the public helped him out with it.
dickens|As foreign steamers would leave London at about the time of highwater, our plan would be to get down the river by a previous ebbtide, and lie by in some quiet spot until we could pull off to one.
austen|Elizabeth was again deep in thought, and after a time exclaimed, To treat in such a manner the godson, the friend, the favourite of his father!
dickens|I went on with my breakfast, and Mr Pumblechook continued to stand over me, staring fishily and breathing noisily, as he always did.
dickens|Home had never been a very pleasant place to me, because of my sisters temper.
dickens|Indeed, it would be hard to say too much for him, said I; and Biddy, we must often speak of these things, for of course I shall be often down here now.
dickens|The great bell of Saint Pauls was striking one in the cleared air, when Mr Lorry, escorted by Jerry, highbooted and bearing a lantern, set forth on his returnpassage to Clerkenwell.
dickens|For, though it includes what I proceed to add, all the merit of what I proceed to add was Joes.
austen|A little time, thereforeI shall certainly try to get the better.
dickens|But, looking up at his face in the interchange of the first few commonplaces, she observed a change in it.
dickens|Noakes and Co.
dickens|Whoever was below had stopped on seeing my lamp, for all was quiet.
austen|If Colonel Campbell is not the person, who can be?
dickens|I had.
dickens|Joe gave me some more gravy.
dickens|She doesnt notice a word!
austen|Woman, lovely woman.
austen|When she saw him thus seeking the acquaintance and courting the good opinion of people with whom any intercourse a few months ago would have been a disgracewhen she saw him thus civil, not only to herself, but to the very relations whom he had openly disdained, and recollected their last lively scene in Hunsford Parsonagethe difference, the change was so great, and struck so forcibly on her mind, that she could hardly restrain her astonishment from being visible.
dickens|said I, we must talk together a little more, as we used to do.
austen|thats all.
austen|Are you lost to every feeling of propriety and delicacy?
austen|she cried.
austen|Then turning to Mrs Weston, with a look of gentle reproachAh!
dickens|Lookee here, dear boy, said he Its best as a gentleman should not be knowed to belong to me now.
austen|The envelope contained a sheet of elegant, little, hotpressed paper, well covered with a ladys fair, flowing hand; and Elizabeth saw her sisters countenance change as she read it, and saw her dwelling intently on some particular passages.
dickens|But I reflected that perhaps freedom without danger was too much apart from all the habit of his existence to be to him what it would be to another man.
austen|I hope he does, replied Mr Knightley coolly, and resuming the letter.
austen|Mrs Bennets best comfort was that Mr Bingley must be down again in the summer.
dickens|And, dear Joe, you have the best wife in the whole world, and she will make you as happy as even you deserve to be, you dear, good, noble Joe!
dickens|Let them out, Estella.
austen|One of those points on which his influence failed, he then mentioned.
dickens|Yah, Bounceable!
dickens|There we were stopped a few minutes by a signal from the sergeants hand, while two or three of his men dispersed themselves among the graves, and also examined the porch.
dickens|He put them, one by one, in the breast of his inner coat, counted out the money for them, and deliberately left the shop.
austen|I had not thought Mr Darcy so bad as thisthough I have never liked him.
austen|I rather wonder that it was never made before.
austen|There could not exist in the world two men over whom Mr Darcy could have such boundless influence.
dickens|asked Mr Lorry, eagerly.
dickens|and the Spy presented himself.
austen|His manners are very different from his cousins.
austen|To the rest of the family they paid little attention; avoiding Mrs Bennet as much as possible, saying not much to Elizabeth, and nothing at all to the others.
dickens|Stop half a moment, Mr Gargery, said the strange man.
austen|The Miss Webbs all play, and their father has not so good an income as yours.
dickens|The Lord above knows what the compromising consequences would be to numbers of people, if some of our documents were seized or destroyed; and they might be, at any time, you know, for who can say that Paris is not set afire today, or sacked tomorrow!
austen|Your inexperience really amuses me!
austen|cried Mrs Gardiner.
dickens|Oh!
austen|It is from Miss Bingley, said Jane, and then read it aloud.
austen|He now wished it more than ever.
austen|I do not pretend to it.
dickens|Ah!
austen|I have not been at all able to account for the honour of seeing you here.
austen|said Jane, shaking her head; dear Mrs Elton, who can have thought of it as I have done?
dickens|The President required the name of that citizen.
dickens|I added, He was drunk, no doubt.
dickens|Who brought you up by hand?
austen|This was the fact.
dickens|To this she returned Dont be ridiculous, boy; I am not going in.
dickens|Towards nine oclock he smoothed his ruffled aspect, and, presenting as respectable and businesslike an exterior as he could overlay his natural self with, issued forth to the occupation of the day.
austen|united, courtship, you know, what reverse we have!
dickens|Tonight, said the man, putting the pipe in his mouth.
dickens|I acknowledged his attention incoherently, and began to think this was a dream.
austen|If you think me in a way to be happier than I deserve, I am quite of your opinion.
dickens|Speak for yourself.
dickens|The citizen here indicated nodded his head, and added  He is accused by Saint Antoine.
austen|It is because he will not give himself the trouble.
dickens|I had not considered how I should take leave of her; it came naturally to me at the moment to do this.
austen|Elizabeth was shocked to think that, however incapable of such coarseness of expression herself, the coarseness of the sentiment was little other than her own breast had harboured and fancied liberal!
dickens|He was soon over, and then the second fisherman got over, and then the third.
austen|Pray, what is your age?
austen|As to thatI do not  Oh!
austen|In Janes eyes she had been a rival; and well might any thing she could offer of assistance or regard be repulsed.
austen|They had been arrived only a few minutes, and Mr Weston had scarcely finished his explanation of Franks being a day before his time, and her father was yet in the midst of his very civil welcome and congratulations, when she appeared, to have her share of surprize, introduction, and pleasure.
dickens|said Mrs Pocket, looking off her book for a moment, everybodys tumbling!
dickens|There was silence between us for a little while.
dickens|Oh, to be sure!
austen|On Mr and Mrs Gardiners coming up they were all pressed to go into the house and take some refreshment; but this was declined, and they parted on each side with utmost politeness.
dickens|It was well guarded, and he got up to go among the trusty people who were watching it, when his door suddenly opened, and two figures rushed in, at sight of which he fell back in amazement.
austen|You may, in fact, carry a very favourable report of us into Hertfordshire, my dear cousin.
dickens|I could see nothing else but black darkness.
dickens|Biddy was the wisest of girls, and she tried to reason no more with me.
austen|No great variety of faces for you, said Emma.
austen|It is to be a morning scheme, you know, Knightley; quite a simple thing.
dickens|Up the two terrace flights of steps the rain ran wildly, and beat at the great door, like a swift messenger rousing those within; uneasy rushes of wind went through the hall, among the old spears and knives, and passed lamenting up the stairs, and shook the curtains of the bed where the last Marquis had slept.
dickens|This may lead to miserable things.
austen|Your musical knowledge alone would entitle you to name your own terms, have as many rooms as you like, and mix in the family as much as you chose;that isI do not knowif you knew the harp, you might do all that, I am very sure; but you sing as well as play;yes, I really believe you might, even without the harp, stipulate for what you chose;and you must and shall be delightfully, honourably and comfortably settled before the Campbells or I have any rest.
austen|I could hardly help laughing aloud sometimes.
austen|She has had the advantage, you know, of practising on me, she continuedlike La Baronne dAlmane on La Comtesse dOstalis, in Madame de Genlis Adelaide and Theodore, and we shall now see her own little Adelaide educated on a more perfect plan.
dickens|And all the worse for the doomed man, that the denouncer was a wellknown citizen, his own attached friend, the father of his wife.
austen|A real injury to the childrena most mortifying change, and material loss to them all;a very great deduction from her fathers daily comfortand, as to herself, she could not at all endure the idea of Jane Fairfax at Donwell Abbey.
austen|I will not say, that since I entered into the engagement I have not had some happy moments; but I can say, that I have never known the blessing of one tranquil hourand the quivering lip, Emma, which uttered it, was an attestation that I felt at my heart.
dickens|There is no help for you in any action on your part tonight; you cannot possibly stir out.
dickens|They were both melted by these words, and both entreated me to say no more.
austen|I dearly love a laugh.
austen|His understanding and opinions all please me; he wants nothing but a little more liveliness, and that, if he marry prudently, his wife may teach him.
austen|Indeed he should.
dickens|Madames resolute right hand was occupied with an axe, in place of the usual softer implements, and in her girdle were a pistol and a cruel knife.
austen|Harriet behaved extremely well on the occasion, with great selfcommand.
dickens|Everywhere was tumult, exultation, deafening and maniacal bewilderment, astounding noise, yet furious dumbshow.
austen|The very last person whom one should expect to be forgotten!
dickens|And when the day came, and an open carriage was got into the Lane, Joe wrapped me up, took me in his arms, carried me down to it, and put me in, as if I were still the small helpless creature to whom he had so abundantly given of the wealth of his great nature.
austen|Kitty, run down and order the carriage.
austen|He cannot afford it.
dickens|I think if she had done such a deed she would be safer where she was.
austen|What does Mr Darcy mean, said she to Charlotte, by listening to my conversation with Colonel Forster?
dickens|Better to begin slowly.
austen|I perfectly comprehend your feelings, and have now only to be ashamed of what my own have been.
dickens|No, maam, I am very sorry for you, and very sorry I cant play just now.
dickens|I thought so.
dickens|Startop, younger in years and appearance, was reading and holding his head, as if he thought himself in danger of exploding it with too strong a charge of knowledge.
austen|Mrs Hurst and Miss Bingley both cried out against the injustice of her implied doubt, and were both protesting that they knew many women who answered this description, when Mr Hurst called them to order, with bitter complaints of their inattention to what was going forward.
dickens|Well, well, reasoned Defarge, but one must stop somewhere.
austen|He takes them now for people of fashion.
dickens|We entered this haven through a wicketgate, and were disgorged by an introductory passage into a melancholy little square that looked to me like a flat buryingground.
dickens|In his lay capacity, he persisted in sitting down in the damp to such an insane extent, that when his coat was taken off to be dried at the kitchen fire, the circumstantial evidence on his trousers would have hanged him, if it had been a capital offence.
dickens|The idea!
dickens|I tell you, I heard her.
dickens|He knew that under the overthrown government he had been a spy upon Saint Antoine and Defarges wineshop; had received from the watchful police such heads of information concerning Doctor Manettes imprisonment, release, and history, as should serve him for an introduction to familiar conversation with the Defarges; and tried them on Madame Defarge, and had broken down with them signally.
dickens|It was a song that imitated the measure of beating upon iron, and was a mere lyrical excuse for the introduction of Old Clems respected name.
dickens|Only in the corner where the combat had taken place could I detect any evidence of the young gentlemans existence.
dickens|Half a moment!
dickens|You dont mind them, Handel?
austen|It will be as clean as Randalls by candlelight.
dickens|Very much, was Wemmicks reply, for I have had my legs under the desk all day, and shall be glad to stretch them.
dickens|Now, concerning the influence of my position on others, I was in no such difficulty, and so I perceivedthough dimly enough perhapsthat it was not beneficial to anybody, and, above all, that it was not beneficial to Herbert.
austen|Jane had come to Highbury professedly for three months; the Campbells were gone to Ireland for three months; but now the Campbells had promised their daughter to stay at least till Midsummer, and fresh invitations had arrived for her to join them there.
dickens|Surely it will release him!
austen|Her cheeks flushed at the name, and she felt afraid of something, though she knew not what.
austen|Heaven forbid!
austen|Miss Bingley told me, said Jane, that he never speaks much, unless among his intimate acquaintances.
dickens|Mr Wopsles greataunt conquered a confirmed habit of living into which she had fallen, and Biddy became a part of our establishment.
austen|but I never have been in love; it is not my way, or my nature; and I do not think I ever shall.
dickens|said Mr Pumblechook conceitedly.
dickens|It was the worst course I could have taken, because it gave Pumblechook the opportunity he wanted.
dickens|The lion took it with care and caution, made his selections from it, and his remarks upon it, and the jackal assisted both.
dickens|Then he put the candle away from him on the table, so that he could see me, and sat with his arms folded on the table and looked at me.
dickens|How do you thrive with Mr Pocket?
austen|Mr Woodhouse was rather agitated by such harsh reflections on his friend Perry, to whom he had, in fact, though unconsciously, been attributing many of his own feelings and expressions;but the soothing attentions of his daughters gradually removed the present evil, and the immediate alertness of one brother, and better recollections of the other, prevented any renewal of it.
dickens|This is an authority to him to pay you that money, to lay out at your irresponsible discretion for your friend.
dickens|writes my letters, wolf!
dickens|The red cap and tricolour cockade were universal, both among men and women.
austen|You and the girls may go, or you may send them by themselves, which perhaps will be still better, for as you are as handsome as any of them, Mr Bingley may like you the best of the party.
austen|You write uncommonly fast.
dickens|Promise me solemnly that nothing will influence you to alter the course on which we now stand pledged to one another.
austen|You must come and make Lizzy marry Mr Collins, for she vows she will not have him, and if you do not make haste he will change his mind and not have her.
dickens|Love her!
dickens|Then, as the marsh winds made the fire glow and flare, I thought I heard the voice outside, of the man with the iron on his leg who had sworn me to secrecy, declaring that he couldnt and wouldnt starve until tomorrow, but must be fed now.
dickens|She laughed and nodded her head a great many times, and even repeated after Biddy, the words Pip and Property.
dickens|I informed Wemmick that I was anxious in behalf of Herbert Pocket, and I told him how we had first met, and how we had fought.
dickens|Whether myrmidons of Justice, specially sent down from London, would be lying in ambush behind the gate;whether Miss Havisham, preferring to take personal vengeance for an outrage done to her house, might rise in those graveclothes of hers, draw a pistol, and shoot me deadwhether suborned boysa numerous band of mercenariesmight be engaged to fall upon me in the brewery, and cuff me until I was no more;it was high testimony to my confidence in the spirit of the pale young gentleman, that I never imagined him accessory to these retaliations; they always came into my mind as the acts of injudicious relatives of his, goaded on by the state of his visage and an indignant sympathy with the family features.
austen|We are both prejudiced; you against, I for him; and we have no chance of agreeing till he is really here.
dickens|Once, I had been taken to see some ghastly waxwork at the Fair, representing I know not what impossible personage lying in state.
dickens|I ask no questions and make no stipulations.
dickens|Nothing.
dickens|God bless you for your sweet compassion!
dickens|Let him take care of his face!
austen|Well, my dear, said he, when she ceased speaking, I have no more to say.
dickens|I think, he answered, still with the end at his mouth and still observant of me, that I will drink I thank you afore I go.
dickens|And as mere human knowledge can split a ray of light and analyse the manner of its composition, so, sublimer intelligences may read in the feeble shining of this earth of ours, every thought and act, every vice and virtue, of every responsible creature on it.
austen|Approve my charade and my intentions in the same glance.
austen|You need not distress yourself.
austen|No; but it must be done soon.
austen|Was it new for one, perhaps too busy to seek, to be the prize of a girl who would seek him?
dickens|Early in the morning I was out, and looking in, unseen, at one of the wooden windows of the forge.
austen|To Elizabeth it appeared that, had her family made an agreement to expose themselves as much as they could during the evening, it would have been impossible for them to play their parts with more spirit or finer success; and happy did she think it for Bingley and her sister that some of the exhibition had escaped his notice, and that his feelings were not of a sort to be much distressed by the folly which he must have witnessed.
dickens|Good gentlemen, thank God!
dickens|He had still the linstock of his gun in his own hand.
dickens|So strange was the way in which he faded into silence, and so strange his fixed look when he had ceased to speak, that Darnay felt his own hand turn cold in the hand that slowly released and dropped it.
austen|Remember it?
austen|They proceeded in silence along the gravel walk that led to the copse; Elizabeth was determined to make no effort for conversation with a woman who was now more than usually insolent and disagreeable.
austen|If he is satisfied with only regretting me, when he might have obtained my affections and hand, I shall soon cease to regret him at all.
austen|There was consciousness, animation, and warmth; there was every thing which her countenance or manner could ever have wanted.
austen|Her power was sinking; everything must sink under such a proof of family weakness, such an assurance of the deepest disgrace.
austen|So obliged to you!
dickens|I remember.
austen|It would surely be much more rational if conversation instead of dancing were made the order of the day.
dickens|Estella looked at her for a moment with a kind of calm wonder, but was not otherwise disturbed; when the moment was past, she looked down at the fire again.
austen|I hope you will think better of their looks tomorrow; for I assure you Mr Wingfield told me, that he did not believe he had ever sent us off altogether, in such good case.
austen|At the same time it is fair to observe, that I am one of those who always judge for themselves, and are by no means implicitly guided by others.
dickens|Over and over and over again, we would make these journeys, and sometimes they would last as long as three hours at a stretch.
austen|In an hurried manner he immediately began an inquiry after her health, imputing his visit to a wish of hearing that she were better.
austen|Perhaps she ought to be ashamed, but Mr Weston had been almost as uneasy as herself.
dickens|I want diversion, and I have done with men and women.
austen|The day passed most pleasantly away; the morning in bustle and shopping, and the evening at one of the theatres.
austen|His affection for her soon sunk into indifference; hers lasted a little longer; and in spite of her youth and her manners, she retained all the claims to reputation which her marriage had given her.
dickens|Is it likely?
austen|It is nearly fifty miles.
austen|If I mistake not that was danced at Weymouth.
austen|Wickham only shook his head.
austen|It is settled between us already, that we are to be the happiest couple in the world.
austen|we had such a good piece of fun the other day at Colonel Forsters.
austen|She must have found the evening agreeable, Mr Knightley, because she had Emma.
austen|He was afraid poor Isabella would not like it.
dickens|With an inconsistency as monstrous as anything in this awful nightmare, they had helped the healer, and tended the wounded man with the gentlest solicitudehad made a litter for him and escorted him carefully from the spothad then caught up their weapons and plunged anew into a butchery so dreadful, that the Doctor had covered his eyes with his hands, and swooned away in the midst of it.
austen|I do not blame Jane, she continued, for Jane would have got Mr Bingley if she could.
austen|It was the favourite wish of his mother, as well as of hers.
austen|But you have not seen so much of the world as I have.
austen|They saw much to interest, but nothing to justify inquiry.
dickens|My guardian threw his supplicant off with supreme indifference, and left him dancing on the pavement as if it were red hot.
dickens|At the last post.
austen|The usual inquiries as to his success were made by the latter.
dickens|Such a staircase, with its accessories, in the older and more crowded parts of Paris, would be bad enough now; but, at that time, it was vile indeed to unaccustomed and unhardened senses.
austen|A scheme of which every part promises delight can never be successful; and general disappointment is only warded off by the defence of some little peculiar vexation.
dickens|He turned his head as they entered, and showed the surprise with which he saw a stranger.
austen|I could do very well without it.
austen|No wonder you should hold my speeches in such affectionate remembrance.
dickens|The coachman looked back and the guard looked back, and even the emphatic leader pricked up his ears and looked back, without contradicting.
dickens|Breakfast had been ordered at a pleasant little tavern, a mile or so away upon the rising ground beyond the green; and there was a bagatelle board in the room, in case we should desire to unbend our minds after the solemnity.
austen|Bingley was all grateful pleasure, and he readily engaged for taking the earliest opportunity of waiting on her, after his return from London, whither he was obliged to go the next day for a short time.
dickens|Gargery  Much good theyll do me!
austen|Is she unwell?
austen|She loved every body, was interested in every bodys happiness, quicksighted to every bodys merits; thought herself a most fortunate creature, and surrounded with blessings in such an excellent mother, and so many good neighbours and friends, and a home that wanted for nothing.
dickens|He devoted himself during the remainder of the evening to keeping a most vigilant watch on Mrs Cruncher, and sullenly holding her in conversation that she might be prevented from meditating any petitions to his disadvantage.
dickens|It was a hurried breakfast with no taste in it.
austen|, set out in the little room; but that was scouted as a wretched suggestion.
austen|It has been a very agreeable day, said Miss Bennet to Elizabeth.
dickens|I should like it very much.
dickens|You shall read em to me, dear boy!
dickens|You talk of desperation.
dickens|What could I do but follow him?
dickens|The footsteps were incessant, and the hurry of them became more and more rapid.
dickens|Dont be frightened!
dickens|Were you newly released on the occasion in question?
austen|Emma waited the result with impatience, but not without strong hopes.
dickens|asked the stranger.
dickens|Well aged parent, said Wemmick, shaking hands with him in a cordial and jocose way, how am you?
dickens|Rise and dress yourself, emigrant.
austen|Yes; to the last.
dickens|Nod away at him, if you please, like winking!
austen|You are my best cure.
dickens|She and no other.
dickens|Then, with that mans permission and even with his aid, his brother took her away; in spite of what I know she must have told his brotherand what that is, will not be long unknown to you, Doctor, if it is nowhis brother took her awayfor his pleasure and diversion, for a little while.
dickens|The lull had a sedative and philosophical influence on Joe, who followed me out into the road to say, as a parting observation that might do me good, On the Rampage, Pip, and off the Rampage, Pipsuch is Life!
austen|When the party broke up, Lydia returned with Mrs Forster to Meryton, from whence they were to set out early the next morning.
dickens|I told you I would, said Mr Cruncher, and I did.
dickens|How is the young lady?
dickens|If a picture of the chateau as it was to be a very few years hence, and of fifty like it as they too were to be a very few years hence, could have been shown to him that night, he might have been at a loss to claim his own from the ghastly, firecharred, plunderwrecked rains.
austen|Emma is spoiled by being the cleverest of her family.
dickens|cried the mender of roads, reflectively; thats true.
austen|Perhaps other people have said so before, but not one with such justice.
austen|Say No, if it is to be said.
dickens|But what the Devil was I to do?
dickens|When I ask you to pass out at that door, tell me it is madness and remain here.
dickens|We were to have a superb dinner, consisting of a leg of pickled pork and greens, and a pair of roast stuffed fowls.
austen|Go, my dear, cried her mother, and show her ladyship about the different walks.
dickens|Mill Pond Bank, and Chinkss Basin, and the Old Green Copper Ropewalk, all so clear and plain!
austen|Everybody declared that he was the wickedest young man in the world; and everybody began to find out that they had always distrusted the appearance of his goodness.
austen|Oh no, no!
austen|Whatever he said, was said well; and whatever he did, done gracefully.
dickens|On the evening of the very night when the object of her jealousy was strangled as I tell you, the young woman presented herself before Provis for one moment, and swore that she would destroy the child which was in her possession, and he should never see it again; then she vanished.
austen|Such language for a young man entirely dependent, to use!
dickens|You hear?
austen|What should not you mind?
dickens|The uncontrollable and hopeless mass of decomposition so engendered, would have polluted the air, even if poverty and deprivation had not loaded it with their intangible impurities; the two bad sources combined made it almost insupportable.
dickens|They had never troubled me before, but they troubled me now, as vulgar appendages.
dickens|This way I kep myself a going.
austen|They attacked him in various wayswith barefaced questions, ingenious suppositions, and distant surmises; but he eluded the skill of them all, and they were at last obliged to accept the secondhand intelligence of their neighbour, Lady Lucas.
dickens|Dont you think I might say that I did not, Joe?
dickens|You know, Pip, replied Joe, as you and me were ever friends, and it were looked forard to betwixt us, as being calclated to lead to larks.
austen|You could not have gratified me more than by expressing an interest.
austen|I wish she were here again.
dickens|By good fortune, too, she was naturally so peculiar in appearance as not to show disfigurement like any other woman.
dickens|She now said, Walk me, walk me!
dickens|I could not have spoken one word, though it had been to save my life.
austen|He came to the part of the room where the sittersby were collected, spoke to some, and walked about in front of them, as if to shew his liberty, and his resolution of maintaining it.
dickens|I have looked at her, speculating thousands of times upon the unborn child from whom I had been rent.
dickens|The coffeeroom at the Blue Boar was empty, and I had not only ordered my dinner there, but had sat down to it, before the waiter knew me.
dickens|Here is this boy which you brought up by hand.
dickens|You came so and so, you did such and such things to divert suspicion.
austen|He brought it with him for us to see.
dickens|Does Pumblechook say so?
dickens|When his host followed him out on the staircase with a candle, to light him down the stairs, the day was coldly looking in through its grimy windows.
dickens|If they had asked me any more questions, I should undoubtedly have betrayed myself, for I was even then on the point of mentioning that there was a balloon in the yard, and should have hazarded the statement but for my invention being divided between that phenomenon and a bear in the brewery.
dickens|Mr Wemmick, said I, I want to ask your opinion.
dickens|said the Marquis to the courier.
austen|the manner of their coming?
austen|He is an excellent young man, both as son and brother.
dickens|Doctor Manette, look upon the prisoner.
austen|Emma seriously hoped she would.
dickens|What was the nameless shadow which again in that one instant had passed?
dickens|A white flag from within the fortress, and a parleythis dimly perceptible through the raging storm, nothing audible in itsuddenly the sea rose immeasurably wider and higher, and swept Defarge of the wineshop over the lowered drawbridge, past the massive stone outer walls, in among the eight great towers surrendered!
austen|Mrs Hurst thought the same, and added  She has nothing, in short, to recommend her, but being an excellent walker.
austen|It did not often happen; for Mr John Knightley had really a great regard for his fatherinlaw, and generally a strong sense of what was due to him; but it was too often for Emmas charity, especially as there was all the pain of apprehension frequently to be endured, though the offence came not.
dickens|There must be something shortsighted in the eternal arrangements, surely!
dickens|Its hard in the law to spile a man, I think.
dickens|Firstly, my mind was too preoccupied to be able to take in the subject clearly.
austen|I am almost afraid that every moment will bring him.
austen|She told the story, however, with great spirit among her friends; for she had a lively, playful disposition, which delighted in anything ridiculous.
austen|Certainly, he is not like Mr Knightley.
dickens|said the Marquis, but smoothly, and with an unchanged front, except as to the spots on his nose I would ride over any of you very willingly, and exterminate you from the earth.
austen|I will answer for the gentlemans indifference.
dickens|I dont know who Sir was, but he certainly was not I, and there was no third person present; thats the way you know the nobleminded, sir!
dickens|remarked Camilla, amiably repressing a sob, while a hitch came into her upper lip, and her tears overflowed.
austen|Nothing, but that the lessons of her past folly might teach her humility and circumspection in future.
dickens|By birth.
dickens|Official sentiments are one thing.
austen|And the next news, I suppose, will be, that we are to lose youjust as I begin to know you.
austen|Nor was it under many, many minutes that she could comprehend what she heard; though not in general backward to credit what was for the advantage of her family, or that came in the shape of a lover to any of them.
austen|And the distinction is not quite so much against the candour and common sense of the world as appears at first; for a very narrow income has a tendency to contract the mind, and sour the temper.
dickens|Go it!
dickens|Mr Jaggers was for her, pursued Wemmick, with a look full of meaning, and worked the case in a way quite astonishing.
austen|She was not less pleased another day with the manner in which he seconded a sudden wish of hers, to have Harriets picture.
austen|The reason of this sudden removal was soon evident.
dickens|He opened his mouth as wide as he could, and shut it with a sounding snap of his teeth.
dickens|Immense, said I.
dickens|Without doubt it is safe, for no one beyond ourselves can decipher it; but shall we always be able to decipher itor, I ought to say, will she?
dickens|Darnay has been arrested again.
dickens|Tellsons Bank, established in the Saint Germain Quarter of Paris, was in a wing of a large house, approached by a courtyard and shut off from the street by a high wall and a strong gate.
austen|I do not know.
austen|Emma was halfashamed of her friend for seeming so pleased and so doubtful.
austen|Only this; that if he is so, you can have no reason to suppose he will make an offer to me.
dickens|Citizen Gabelle hinted, with infinite delicacy and politeness, that in the pressure of business imposed on the Tribunal by the multitude of enemies of the Republic with which it had to deal, he had been slightly overlooked in his prison of the Abbayein fact, had rather passed out of the Tribunals patriotic remembranceuntil three days ago; when he had been summoned before it, and had been set at liberty on the Jurys declaring themselves satisfied that the accusation against him was answered, as to himself, by the surrender of the citizen Evremonde, called Darnay.
austen|But, my dear sister, though the event has proved you right, do not think me obstinate if I still assert that, considering what her behaviour was, my confidence was as natural as your suspicion.
dickens|My name is Defarge, and I keep a wineshop in the Quarter Saint Antoine.
dickens|He was waiting for me with great impatience.
austen|And I am sure, by his manner, it was no compliment.
austen|I hope I never ridicule what is wise and good.
austen|Oh!
dickens|and the moment he said that, the stranger turned his head and looked at me.
austen|Lydia, my love, ring the bellI must speak to Hill this moment.
dickens|Let greater echoes resound as they would, the young mother at the cradle side could always hear those coming.
dickens|, it is a curious thing that she is going to marry the nephew of Monsieur the Marquis, for whom Gaspard was exalted to that height of so many feet; in other words, the present Marquis.
dickens|Naturally, therefore, a funeral with this uncommon attendance excited him greatly, and he asked of the first man who ran against him  What is it, brother?
dickens|My business?
austen|She had been graciously pleased to approve of both of the discourses which he had already had the honour of preaching before her.
austen|I must love him; and now that I am satisfied on one point, the one material point, I am sincerely anxious for its all turning out well, and ready to hope that it may.
dickens|So long as a servant was present, no other words passed between them.
dickens|Does any one live, who knows what a steady memory you have, half as well as I do?
dickens|Joe gave a reproachful cough, as much as to say, Well, I told you so.
austen|Very much grieved and concernedI had flattered myself that she must be better after such a cordial as I knew had been given her in the morning.
dickens|They leisurely walk round the carriage and leisurely mount the box, to look at what little luggage it carries on the roof; the countrypeople hanging about, press nearer to the coach doors and greedily stare in; a little child, carried by its mother, has its short arm held out for it, that it may touch the wife of an aristocrat who has gone to the Guillotine.
dickens|It bore the words in the Doctors writing      Charles is safe, but I cannot safely leave this place yet.
austen|Bingley looked a little silly at this reflection, and said something of his concern at having been prevented by business.
austen|She studied every sentence; and her feelings towards its writer were at times widely different.
dickens|From that room, too, the daylight was completely excluded, and it had an airless smell that was oppressive.
dickens|In the pantry, which was far more abundantly supplied than usual, owing to the season, I was very much alarmed by a hare hanging up by the heels, whom I rather thought I caught, when my back was half turned, winking.
austen|The dear Colonel rallied his spirits tolerably till just at last; but Darcy seemed to feel it most acutely, more, I think, than last year.
austen|You mentioned two instances.
austen|The kindhearted, polite old man might then sit down and feel that he had done his duty, and made every fair lady welcome and easy.
dickens|Yes, of course I saw you.
dickens|I am Ernest Defarge.
dickens|Oh indeed!
austen|The result of this distress was, that, with a much more voluntary, cheerful consent than his daughter had ever presumed to hope for at the moment, she was able to fix her weddingdayand Mr Elton was called on, within a month from the marriage of Mr and Mrs Robert Martin, to join the hands of Mr Knightley and Miss Woodhouse.
austen|Oh!
austen|Catherine and Lydia had information for them of a different sort.
dickens|It was you, Joe.
austen|Emma knows I never flatter her, said Mr Knightley, but I meant no reflection on any body.
dickens|He darkly closed an eye at Mr Jaggerss name, and shook his head.
austen|I hope she is well?
austen|They could talk of nothing but officers; and Mr Bingleys large fortune, the mention of which gave animation to their mother, was worthless in their eyes when opposed to the regimentals of an ensign.
dickens|My husband!
austen|Oh, said he, wait half a minute, till I have finished my job;For, would you believe it, Miss Woodhouse, there he is, in the most obliging manner in the world, fastening in the rivet of my mothers spectacles.
austen|She closed with this offer, resolving to break with me entirely, and wrote the next day to tell me that we never were to meet again.
austen|After tea, Mr Bennet retired to the library, as was his custom, and Mary went up stairs to her instrument.
dickens|Dear fellow, I hope he did.
austen|Elizabeth, particularly, who knew that her mother owed to the latter the preservation of her favourite daughter from irremediable infamy, was hurt and distressed to a most painful degree by a distinction so ill applied.
dickens|Such frizzling and powdering and sticking up of hair, such delicate complexions artificially preserved and mended, such gallant swords to look at, and such delicate honour to the sense of smell, would surely keep anything going, for ever and ever.
dickens|If I say yes, may I kiss the cheek again?
dickens|Likewise youre a oncommon scholar.
dickens|Not so much so as you were last time, said I.
dickens|When it fell dark again, Mr Lorry asked him as before  Dear Doctor, will you go out?
dickens|She had lost his name, and could only signify him by his hammer.
dickens|Whatever I acquired, I tried to impart to Joe.
austen|Her early attachment to herself was very amiable; and her inclination for good company, and power of appreciating what was elegant and clever, shewed that there was no want of taste, though strength of understanding must not be expected.
dickens|It is in my nature, she returned.
austen|She looked round for a moment; he had joined Mr Knightley at a little distance, and was arranging himself for settled conversation, while smiles of high glee passed between him and his wife.
dickens|Im going to take a holiday.
dickens|Time enough, then, to think about growing old.
dickens|Yet for all that, I remember feeling convinced that I had been much mistaken in him, and that he was a sensible, practical, goodhearted prime fellow.
austen|no wonder that you have such a curiosity to see him.
austen|Mr Weston would undoubtedly support me, if he were here, for he thinks exactly as I do on the subject.
austen|With astonishment did Elizabeth see that her new acquaintance was at least as much embarrassed as herself.
dickens|How does she look?
dickens|I begin to think I am faint.
austen|The sudden acquisition of ten thousand pounds was the most remarkable charm of the young lady to whom he was now rendering himself agreeable; but Elizabeth, less clearsighted perhaps in this case than in Charlottes, did not quarrel with him for his wish of independence.
dickens|I had not got far into it, when I judged from her looks that she was thinking in a discursive way of me, rather than of what I said.
dickens|Among the talkers, was Stryver, of the Kings Bench Bar, far on his way to state promotion, and, therefore, loud on the theme broaching to Monseigneur, his devices for blowing the people up and exterminating them from the face of the earth, and doing without them and for accomplishing many similar objects akin in their nature to the abolition of eagles by sprinkling salt on the tails of the race.
dickens|Am I insulting?
austen|if that is all, I have a very poor opinion of young men who live in Derbyshire; and their intimate friends who live in Hertfordshire are not much better.
austen|How inconsiderate, how indelicate, how irrational, how unfeeling had been her conduct!
austen|repeated Mr Knightley.
austen|Away ran the girls, too eager to get in to have time for speech.
austen|And have you never known the pleasure and triumph of a lucky guess?
austen|To her it was real enjoyment to be with the Westons.
austen|He should like to see the old house again exceedingly, and should be very happy to meet Mr and Mrs Elton, and any other of his neighbours.
dickens|You must not be weak, my darling, he remonstrated; dont tremble so.
austen|I often tell my other girls they are nothing to her.
dickens|They are in great danger.
dickens|There appeared upon the scenesay at the races, or the public balls, or anywhere else you likea certain man, who made love to Miss Havisham.
dickens|Stooping again to come out at the lowarched door, they left it burning, and retraced their way to the courtyard; seeming to recover their sense of hearing as they came down, until they were in the raging flood once more.
dickens|I should like to know how you speed; though, mind!
austen|The young ladies of Highbury might have walked again in safety before their panic began, and the whole history dwindled soon into a matter of little importance but to Emma and her nephewsin her imagination it maintained its ground, and Henry and John were still asking every day for the story of Harriet and the gipsies, and still tenaciously setting her right if she varied in the slightest particular from the original recital.
dickens|But it really is doubly and trebly hard to have crowds and multitudes of people turning up after him I could have forgiven him, to take Ladybirds affections away from me.
austen|Mr Weston was a great favourite, and there was not a creature in the world to whom she spoke with such unreserve, as to his wife; not any one, to whom she related with such conviction of being listened to and understood, of being always interesting and always intelligible, the little affairs, arrangements, perplexities, and pleasures of her father and herself.
dickens|His appearance; is it known?
dickens|It seems, said Herbert, theres a bandage off most charmingly, and now comes the cool one,makes you shrink at first, my poor dear fellow, dont it?
dickens|I cant say that I mean to.
austen|Had she been a person of consequence herself, he would have come I dare say; and it would not have signified whether he did or no.
austen|Miss Bennets pleasing manners grew on the goodwill of Mrs Hurst and Miss Bingley; and though the mother was found to be intolerable, and the younger sisters not worth speaking to, a wish of being better acquainted with them was expressed towards the two eldest.
austen|Had his character been known, this could not have happened.
austen|I know that you all love her really too well to be unjust or unkind; but excuse me, Mr Knightley, if I take the liberty I consider myself, you know, as having somewhat of the privilege of speech that Emmas mother might have had the liberty of hinting that I do not think any possible good can arise from Harriet Smiths intimacy being made a matter of much discussion among you.
austen|Papa is only speaking his own regret.
austen|Mr Knightley, always so kind, so feeling, so truly considerate for every body, would never deserve to be less worshipped than now; and it really was too much to hope even of Harriet, that she could be in love with more than three men in one year.
dickens|said Joe.
dickens|In the arrangements of the little household, Miss Pross took charge of the lower regions, and always acquitted herself marvellously.
dickens|He is a good child, this mender of roads, called Jacques.
austen|It is not in the smallest degree connected with any human being of the name of Knightley.
austen|I fancy I am rather a favourite; he took notice of my gown.
dickens|It is against rule, answered the first; but you can ask Him of Saint Antoine here.
dickens|It was a sort of vault on the ground floor at the back, with a despotic monster of a fourpost bedstead in it, straddling over the whole place, putting one of his arbitrary legs into the fireplace and another into the doorway, and squeezing the wretched little washingstand in quite a Divinely Righteous manner.
dickens|Now, thou hast kissed a good Republican; something new in thy family; remember it!
austen|noI never conceived you could become indifferent.
austen|She was dying to know what could be his meaning?
dickens|Patches of poor rye where corn should have been, patches of poor peas and beans, patches of most coarse vegetable substitutes for wheat.
austen|Emma shall be an angel, and I will keep my spleen to myself till Christmas brings John and Isabella.
austen|You will not find him more favourably spoken of by anyone.
dickens|Since your change of fortune and prospects, you have changed your companions, said Estella.
austen|Are you disposed to pity me for what I must have suffered in opening the cause to him, for my suspense while all was at stake?
austen|I should not wonder, said Mrs Weston, if Miss Fairfax were to have been drawn on beyond her own inclination, by her aunts eagerness in accepting Mrs Eltons civilities for her.
dickens|said I.
austen|But I cannotI have never desired your good opinion, and you have certainly bestowed it most unwillingly.
austen|I care for nothing else.
austen|Who makes you their confidant?
austen|Can it be Neptune?
dickens|We were at Newgate in a few minutes, and we passed through the lodge where some fetters were hanging up on the bare walls among the prison rules, into the interior of the jail.
dickens|How many were with him?
austen|The strength, resolution, and presence of mind of the Mr Knightleys, commanded his fullest dependence.
dickens|DAulnais is the name of his mothers family.
dickens|Madame Defarge looked, coldly as ever, at the suppliant, and said, turning to her friend The Vengeance  The wives and mothers we have been used to see, since we were as little as this child, and much less, have not been greatly considered?
dickens|The transition to the sport of windowbreaking, and thence to the plundering of publichouses, was easy and natural.
dickens|They went into a dingy room lined with books and littered with papers, where there was a blazing fire.
dickens|Stop!
austen|She talked with a great deal of reason, and at least equal affectionbut she had too much to urge for Emmas attention; it was soon gone to Brunswick Square or to Donwell; she forgot to attempt to listen; and when Mrs Weston ended with, We have not yet had the letter we are so anxious for, you know, but I hope it will soon come, she was obliged to pause before she answered, and at last obliged to answer at random, before she could at all recollect what letter it was which they were so anxious for.
dickens|Sydney Carton took no heed, and the chemist said  For you, citizen?
dickens|But, do not believe, said Darnay, upon whose ear the mournful voice struck with a reproachful sound, that if my fortune were so cast as that, being one day so happy as to make her my wife, I must at any time put any separation between her and you, I could or would breathe a word of what I now say.
austen|There is in everything a most remarkable resemblance of character and ideas between us.
dickens|Every fine straight line in the clear whiteness of his face, was cruelly, craftily, and closely compressed, while he stood looking quietly at his nephew, with his snuffbox in his hand.
dickens|said Mrs Pocket.
austen|I cannot think so very ill of Wickham.
austen|She endeavoured to persuade herself that she did not regret it; but she could no longer be blind to Miss Bingleys inattention.
austen|Trust to me.
austen|It was really a very handsome thought.
dickens|Cartons hand moved back to his breast no more.
dickens|Have you though?
dickens|When he had said it, he took a culminating pinch of snuff, and put his box in his pocket.
dickens|But, Pipmy dear!
austen|This is the simple truth.
dickens|The door closed, and Carton was left alone.
dickens|While he was at a loss, Carton said, resuming his former air of contemplating cards  And indeed, now I think again, I have a strong impression that I have another good card here, not yet enumerated.
dickens|Now, I too had so often thought it a pity, that, in the singular kind of quarrel with myself which I was always carrying on, I was half inclined to shed tears of vexation and distress when Biddy gave utterance to her sentiment and my own.
dickens|The voice of the submissive man who had spoken, was flat and tame in its extreme submission.
dickens|He is greatly changed?
dickens|Hes hoarser than suits me, is Jerry.
dickens|And now go!
austen|Then turning to Isabella, who had not been attending beforeYou must know, my dear Mrs Knightley, that we are by no means so sure of seeing Mr Frank Churchill, in my opinion, as his father thinks.
dickens|Good day, one and all!
austen|Yes, there was something in that; I told you so from the first, you may remember.
dickens|However, I came into town on the Monday night to be ready for Joe, and I got up early in the morning, and caused the sittingroom and breakfasttable to assume their most splendid appearance.
dickens|asked Biddy, timidly.
dickens|I got through some jargon to the effect that I took the liberty of doubting that.
austen|She comforted her father better than she could comfort herself, by representing that though he certainly would make them nine, yet he always said so little, that the increase of noise would be very immaterial.
dickens|They passed through the intervening streets as quickly as they might, ascended the staircase of the new domicile, were admitted by Jerry, and found Lucie weeping, alone.
austen|Elizabeth assured him that she could suit herself perfectly with those in the room.
dickens|I dare say not, rejoined Stryver, nodding his head in a smoothing and final way; no matter, no matter.
dickens|I am not going to leave poor Joe alone.
dickens|To return to poor Darnay, said Carton.
dickens|Dont you smell rum?
dickens|That is a banknote, repeated Mr Jaggers, for five hundred pounds.
dickens|I dont understand you, said Mr Lorry.
dickens|I was surprised into crooning this ditty as I pushed her over the floor.
dickens|Is there any noise in the streets?
austen|And it is a kindness to employ our men.
austen|No suspicious flourishes now of apology or concern; it was the language of real feeling towards Mrs Weston; and the transition from Highbury to Enscombe, the contrast between the places in some of the first blessings of social life was just enough touched on to shew how keenly it was felt, and how much more might have been said but for the restraints of propriety.
austen|yesMr Knightley and I both saying we liked it, and Mr Eltons seeming resolved to learn to like it too.
austen|Think, then, what I must have endured in hearing it bandied between the Eltons with all the vulgarity of needless repetition, and all the insolence of imaginary superiority.
austen|He saw that Emma had soon made it out, and found it highly entertaining, though it was something which she judged it proper to appear to censure; for she said, Nonsense!
austen|My dear Emma, your own good sense could not endure such a puppy when it came to the point.
dickens|Oh father, father.
dickens|Therese.
dickens|Here again Mr Lorrys inquiries into Miss Prosss personal history had established the fact that her brother Solomon was a heartless scoundrel who had stripped her of everything she possessed, as a stake to speculate with, and had abandoned her in her poverty for evermore, with no touch of compunction.
austen|you have found us out at last, have you, in our seclusion?
austen|Elizabeth then contrived to sit by her aunt.
dickens|He held me by the collar and stared at me so, that I began to think his first idea about cutting my throat had revived.
dickens|No, Lucie, my dear, nor you!
dickens|Whereas them medical doctors wives dont flopcatch em at it!
dickens|Strike me, Joe.
dickens|Ah!
austen|This was very proper; the sigh which accompanied it was really estimable; but it should have lasted longer.
austen|, and they did at last move out of the shop, with no farther delay from Miss Bates than,  How do you do, Mrs Ford?
austen|Then addressing her daughter, Oh!
austen|She had not been able to speak; and, on entering the carriage, sunk back for a moment overcomethen reproaching herself for having taken no leave, making no acknowledgment, parting in apparent sullenness, she looked out with voice and hand eager to shew a difference; but it was just too late.
austen|when should I ever have thought of putting by in cotton a piece of courtplaister that Frank Churchill had been pulling about!
dickens|While he trotted back with the message he was to deliver to the night watchman in his box at the door of Tellsons Bank, by Temple Bar, who was to deliver it to greater authorities within, the shadows of the night took such shapes to him as arose out of the message, and took such shapes to the mare as arose out of her private topics of uneasiness.
dickens|Ecod!
dickens|Still, Madame Defarge, pursuing her way along the streets, came nearer and nearer.
austen|The plan of a drain, the change of a fence, the felling of a tree, and the destination of every acre for wheat, turnips, or spring corn, was entered into with as much equality of interest by John, as his cooler manners rendered possible; and if his willing brother ever left him any thing to inquire about, his inquiries even approached a tone of eagerness.
dickens|At heart and by descent an Aristocrat, an enemy of the Republic, a notorious oppressor of the People.
austen|But Harriet SmithI have not half done about Harriet Smith.
dickens|Estella, Estella, Estella, to be proud and hard to me!
dickens|Then, I have talked with Wemmick, said I, and have come to tell you what caution he gave me and what advice.
austen|No, said her father; Wickhams a fool if he takes her with a farthing less than ten thousand pounds.
austen|Where is she?
dickens|To Mr Lorry, he commended them all, and explained his worldly affairs.
dickens|Curious to know how the old gentleman stood informed concerning the reputation of Mr Jaggers, I roared that name at him.
austen|I thought I should have broken my heart.
dickens|It has been kept from her, and I hope will always be kept from her.
austen|He had no reason to wish his hair longer, to conceal any confusion of face; no reason to wish the money unspent, to improve his spirits.
dickens|Is it Pumblechooks house that has been broken into, then?
dickens|You understand what I say?
dickens|You may be sure, dear Joe, I went on, after we had shaken hands, that I shall never forget you.
austen|I was desired to say so from both.
dickens|Extraordinary how soon the noisome flavour of imprisoned sleep, becomes manifest in all such places that are ill cared for!
dickens|You had a child once, whom you loved and lost.
dickens|Let me show you the nearest tavern to dine well at.
austen|Miss Woodhouse, what do you think has happened!
dickens|Its a fight to get back again.
dickens|With the aid of his indispensable cap, he represented a man with his elbows bound fast at his hips, with cords that were knotted behind him.
dickens|What is it that your husband says in that little letter?
dickens|she returned.
dickens|You may be certain that I laugh because they fail.
austen|It was consequently necessary to name some other period for the commencement of actual felicityto have some other point on which her wishes and hopes might be fixed, and by again enjoying the pleasure of anticipation, console herself for the present, and prepare for another disappointment.
austen|You did behave very shamefully.
dickens|I see the good old man, so long their friend, in ten years time enriching them with all he has, and passing tranquilly to his reward.
austen|And when her sisters abused it as ugly, she added, with perfect unconcern, Oh!
dickens|For, the time was to come, when the gaunt scarecrows of that region should have watched the lamplighter, in their idleness and hunger, so long, as to conceive the idea of improving on his method, and hauling up men by those ropes and pulleys, to flare upon the darkness of their condition.
austen|I, who am owing all my happiness to you, would not it be horrible ingratitude in me to be severe on them?
dickens|Youll go down?
austen|With a faint blush, she presently replied,  Such attentions as Mrs Eltons, I should have imagined, would rather disgust than gratify Miss Fairfax.
dickens|No, no, no; you are too young, too blooming.
austen|But, unfortunatelyin short, if your compassion does not stand my friend  Oh!
dickens|Herbert threw in, with his eyes on the fire; which I thought kind and sympathetic of him.
austen|And you must be off this very morning?
dickens|Will you rest here a little?
austen|It was a done thing; Mr Elton was to go, and never had his broad handsome face expressed more pleasure than at this moment; never had his smile been stronger, nor his eyes more exulting than when he next looked at her.
dickens|Id ha been glad to pison the beer myself, said the Jack, or put some rattling physic in it.
dickens|Tom!
dickens|There were carved garlands on the panelled walls, and as he stood among them giving us welcome, I know what kind of loops I thought they looked like.
dickens|But I held to it, and the harder it was, the stronger I held, for I was determined, and my mind firm made up.
dickens|It is necessary to tell him very little.
austen|It is so long since I have seen her, except now and then for a moment accidentally in town!
dickens|I followed her at a distance, and saw her go up the staircase.
dickens|He greatly disturbed that poor woman at intervals, by darting out of his sleeping closet, where he made his toilet, with a suppressed cry of You are going to flop, mother.
dickens|exclaimed Mr Lorry.
austen|For what do we live, but to make sport for our neighbours, and laugh at them in our turn?
dickens|The staircase was short, and they were soon at the top.
austen|It was not merely in fine words or hyperbolical compliment that he paid his duty; nothing could be more proper or pleasing than his whole manner to hernothing could more agreeably denote his wish of considering her as a friend and securing her affection.
dickens|Then, he melted into parental tenderness, and gave them a shilling apiece and told them to go and play; and then as they went out, with one very strong effort to lift himself up by the hair he dismissed the hopeless subject.
austen|I have escaped; and that I should escape, may be a matter of grateful wonder to you and myself.
austen|They now walked on together quietly, till within view of the vicarage pales, when a sudden resolution, of at least getting Harriet into the house, made her again find something very much amiss about her boot, and fall behind to arrange it once more.
dickens|The ministers of Sainte Guillotine are robed and ready.
dickens|Except one man, who got up and went out.
austen|Let me congratulate you on a very important conquest.
austen|He was not fond of dining out.
austen|How it would affect Frank was among the earliest thoughts of both.
austen|But then there is not so clever a man any where.
austen|Till this year, every long vacation since their marriage had been divided between Hartfield and Donwell Abbey; but all the holidays of this autumn had been given to seabathing for the children, and it was therefore many months since they had been seen in a regular way by their Surry connexions, or seen at all by Mr Woodhouse, who could not be induced to get so far as London, even for poor Isabellas sake; and who consequently was now most nervously and apprehensively happy in forestalling this too short visit.
dickens|If you take me from here, I think I shall die by the way.
dickens|I stood, with a hand on the chairback and a hand on my breast, where I seemed to be suffocating,I stood so, looking wildly at him, until I grasped at the chair, when the room began to surge and turn.
dickens|Perhaps I might have told Joe about the pale young gentleman, if I had not previously been betrayed into those enormous inventions to which I had confessed.
dickens|I know her mother.
dickens|While I thought you could not help yourself, as it were, I refrained from saying it.
dickens|If you mean to take a present that I have it in charge to make you, speak out, and you shall have it.
austen|Implacable resentment is a shade in a character.
dickens|He had struck root in Joes establishment, by reason of my sisters sudden fancy for him, or I should have tried to get him dismissed.
dickens|It may be years hence.
dickens|Casting his eyes over Gabelles letter, the same personage in authority showed some disorder and surprise, and looked at Darnay with a close attention.
dickens|Such a present of plate as you have made em, is enough to bring tears into anybodys eyes.
dickens|Is it likely, I said, after hesitating, that my patron, the fountainhead you have spoken of, Mr Jaggers, will soon there I delicately stopped.
austen|Miss Bennet I am shocked and astonished.
dickens|Again Darnay answered not a word.
austen|Blessed with so many resources within myself, the world was not necessary to me.
dickens|Take care of your chest and voice, my good friend, and leave the law to take care of itself.
austen|I never met with her equal.
dickens|Youre a nice woman!
dickens|Now, get assistance and take me to the coach.
austen|The ground covered with snow, and the atmosphere in that unsettled state between frost and thaw, which is of all others the most unfriendly for exercise, every morning beginning in rain or snow, and every evening setting in to freeze, she was for many days a most honourable prisoner.
dickens|But it either is, or it will be, or its in great danger of being.
dickens|His personal recognition of each successive client was comprised in a nod, and in his settling his hat a little easier on his head with both hands, and then tightening the postoffice, and putting his hands in his pockets.
austen|How humiliating is this discovery!
dickens|He hopes I am, if hes alive, you may be sure, with a fierce look.
dickens|So resistless was the force of the ocean bearing him on, that even to draw his breath or turn his head was as impracticable as if he had been struggling in the surf at the South Sea, until he was landed in the outer courtyard of the Bastille.
austen|Emma, on reaching home, called the housekeeper directly, to an examination of her stores; and some arrowroot of very superior quality was speedily despatched to Miss Bates with a most friendly note.
austen|But what is to be done about Pemberley?
austen|Elizabeth would not observe her; and when at last Kitty did, she very innocently said, What is the matter mamma?
dickens|Ah, indeed!
dickens|I wondered what was the history of all the odd litter about the room, and how it came there.
austen|cried Miss Bates.
austen|His most particular friend, you see by Janes account, was persuaded of his never intending to marry her.
dickens|So, with great perseverance and untiring industry, he prospered.
dickens|If that was beginning it said Mr Lorry.
dickens|It is Jarvis Lorry who has replied to all the previous questions.
dickens|Sowed em, to come up small salad.
dickens|And walked with a settled step, downstairs.
austen|And Jane will have such another.
dickens|Good, said the imperturbable master.
austen|Then, here come all my attempts at three of those four children;there they are, Henry and John and Bella, from one end of the sheet to the other, and any one of them might do for any one of the rest.
austen|But for that reason, I should imagine the likeness must be chiefly confined to the females, for boys have very little teaching after an early age, and scramble into any hand they can get.
dickens|Defarge brought him the wine, and gave him Good Evening.
austen|Must go and speak to Dr and Mrs Hughes for a moment.
austen|A degree or two lower, and a creditable appearance might interest me; I might hope to be useful to their families in some way or other.
dickens|The sort of interest with which this man was stared and breathed at, was not a sort that elevated humanity.
dickens|She lived, and found powerful friends.
dickens|I am supported from above dont suffer for me.
austen|As soon as Mrs Weston was sufficiently recovered to admit Mr Woodhouses visits, Emma having it in view that her gentle reasonings should be employed in the cause, resolved first to announce it at home, and then at Randalls.
dickens|Sir, returned Mr Wopsle, without having the honor of your acquaintance, I do say Guilty.
austen|But on returning to the drawingroom, when her letter was finished, she saw, to her infinite surprise, there was reason to fear that her mother had been too ingenious for her.
dickens|Have you any reason to believe that Lucie loves you?
austen|so very much obliged to you for the carriage,  resumed Miss Bates.
dickens|Now you are to understand, secondly, Mr Pip, that the name of the person who is your liberal benefactor remains a profound secret, until the person chooses to reveal it.
dickens|I have no other information.
austen|Yes, certainly it does.
austen|In this manner Lady Catherine talked on, till they were at the door of the carriage, when, turning hastily round, she added, I take no leave of you, Miss Bennet.
austen|She had been particularly unwell, however, suffering from headache to a degree, which made her aunt declare, that had the ball taken place, she did not think Jane could have attended it; and it was charity to impute some of her unbecoming indifference to the languor of illhealth.
austen|shaking his headthe uncertainty of when I may be able to return!
dickens|Yes?
dickens|said madame again.
dickens|It was silently acquiesced in, and they passed her over the seats in the hall to a raised place, where he, by leaning over the dock, could fold her in his arms.
austen|They were ignorant, idle, and vain.
austen|And secretly she added to herself, Lord bless me!
dickens|I was not expected, for she left me locked in the yard, while she went to ask if I were to be admitted.
austen|And now we shall just miss them; too provoking!
austen|On the contrary, I think a young man might be very safely recommended to take Mr Elton as a model.
dickens|Alterations have been made in that part of the Temple since that time, and it has not now so lonely a character as it had then, nor is it so exposed to the river.
dickens|The three had risen, and their heads were together when he came back to the garret.
austen|My dear Mr Bennet, cried his wife, what are you talking of?
dickens|To be buried alive for eighteen years!
dickens|Pray excuse me, said I.
austen|He came back gay and selfsatisfied, eager and busy, caring nothing for Miss Woodhouse, and defying Miss Smith.
austen|This young gentleman is blessed, in a peculiar way, with every thing the heart of mortal can most desire,splendid property, noble kindred, and extensive patronage.
austen|What are young men to rocks and mountains?
dickens|I make this little preface, because you once mentioned the young lady to me in slighting terms.
dickens|If you were to renounce this patronage and these favors, I suppose you would do so with some faint hope of one day repaying what you have already had.
dickens|I called to mind that the clerk had the same air of knowing something to everybody elses disadvantage, as his master had.
dickens|It is so, assented Defarge, without being asked.
austen|It had not been very great; he had lost every point; but when Mrs Phillips began to express her concern thereupon, he assured her with much earnest gravity that it was not of the least importance, that he considered the money as a mere trifle, and begged that she would not make herself uneasy.
austen|It was a life of deceit!
dickens|Where does my father get all that iron rust from?
dickens|Finally, he went away with Mr and Mrs Hubble,to make an evening of it, I felt sure, and to tell the Jolly Bargemen that he was the founder of my fortunes and my earliest benefactor.
austen|You need not send them word at Longbourn of my going, if you do not like it, for it will make the surprise the greater, when I write to them and sign my name Lydia Wickham.
austen|Come, said she, I will tell you something, in return for what you have told me.
austen|a word to the wise.
dickens|May one ask what it is for?
austen|my dear, said Maria, quite shocked at the mistake, it is not Lady Catherine.
dickens|Then she took some butter not too much on a knife and spread it on the loaf, in an apothecary kind of way, as if she were making a plaster,using both sides of the knife with a slapping dexterity, and trimming and moulding the butter off round the crust.
austen|Without his sanction I could not hope to be listened to again.
dickens|hundreds of times.
dickens|And I told him what I had not mentioned in my narrative, of that encounter with the other convict.
dickens|There was no cessation, but the regular moments pause, in the utterance of these sounds.
austen|She lived with her single daughter in a very small way, and was considered with all the regard and respect which a harmless old lady, under such untoward circumstances, can excite.
dickens|I dont think I do like, if I may speak my mind.
dickens|The last I saw of them was, when I presently heard a scuffle behind me, and looking back, saw Joe throwing an old shoe after me and Biddy throwing another old shoe.
dickens|After a while, we had so run it down, that we could hear one voice calling Murder!
austen|Such a home, indeed!
dickens|Pray let me take these bags from you.
dickens|For, as I draw closer and closer to the end, I travel in the circle, nearer and nearer to the beginning.
dickens|It came to my knowledge, through what passed between Mrs Pocket and Drummle while I was attentive to my knife and fork, spoon, glasses, and other instruments of selfdestruction, that Drummle, whose Christian name was Bentley, was actually the next heir but one to a baronetcy.
dickens|While he was drinking his moderate allowance, he said, with nothing to lead up to it, and after having appeared rather fidgety,  What do you think of my meaning to take a holiday on Monday, Mr Pip?
austen|Jane looked at her doubtingly.
austen|True.
dickens|After favoring them with some heads of that discourse, he remarked that he considered the subject of the days homily, ill chosen; which was the less excusable, he added, when there were so many subjects going about.
austen|His arrival was soon known at the Parsonage; for Mr Collins was walking the whole morning within view of the lodges opening into Hunsford Lane, in order to have the earliest assurance of it, and after making his bow as the carriage turned into the Park, hurried home with the great intelligence.
austen|They could not be untouched by his politeness; and had they drawn his character from their own feelings and his servants report, without any reference to any other account, the circle in Hertfordshire to which he was known would not have recognized it for Mr Darcy.
dickens|Miss Havisham, Joe?
dickens|When I got home at night, and delivered this message for Joe, my sister went on the Rampage, in a more alarming degree than at any previous period.
austen|Do you think I had better say No?
austen|For once in your life you would be obliged to own yourself mistaken.
austen|Might he be trusted with the commission, what infinite pleasure should he have in executing it!
dickens|Against what side?
dickens|This is him, said Pumblechook, as I have rode in my shaycart.
dickens|This is him as I have seen brought up by hand.
austen|Dont scruple.
austen|Upon my word it is, Miss Bates.
dickens|This occasioned its terrors to be received derisively.
austen|She had resolution enough to pursue her own will in spite of her brother, but not enough to refrain from unreasonable regrets at that brothers unreasonable anger, nor from missing the luxuries of her former home.
dickens|I should think from the color of his clothes that he is working in the quarries.
dickens|He has the same look.
austen|What did you say of me, that I did not deserve?
dickens|France may be, but is the property?
dickens|I know only one thing that I am fit for, and that is, to go for a soldier.
dickens|Pretty nigh, old chap.
dickens|In my own house!
austen|not a word, if you please.
austen|I mend pens remarkably well.
dickens|What I had to say to Estella, Miss Havisham, I will say before you, presentlyin a few moments.
dickens|I dont know how this was.
dickens|I saw her pass me on the road.
dickens|said Monsieur Defarge.
dickens|We have so asserted our station, both in the old time and in the modern time also, said the nephew, gloomily, that I believe our name to be more detested than any name in France.
dickens|But, Doctor Manette.
austen|I can allow for the fears of the child, but not of the man.
dickens|Then tell us.
austen|To be sure London was rather thin, but, however, the Little Theatre was open.
dickens|To state that my terrible patron carried this little black book about the world solely to swear people on in cases of emergency, would be to state what I never quite established; but this I can say, that I never knew him put it to any other use.
austen|What was I talking of?
dickens|I have no hope, said Mr Lorry, in a low and sorrowful whisper.
austen|On another,  And after all, five couple are not enough to make it worth while to stand up.
dickens|And I think he added in a lower growl, that we might both go to the devil and shake ourselves.
austen|I am afraid, returned Emma, sighing, that I must often have contributed to make her unhappy.
dickens|But I interrupt you in what you said to Biddy.
dickens|By his tall figure, said the mender of roads, softly, and with his finger at his nose.
dickens|said Herbert.
dickens|said Mr Jaggers.
dickens|Your heart.
austen|Depend upon it, he would not like to have his charade slighted, much better than his passion.
dickens|said Mr Lorry, bending down his ear, while his eye strayed to the House afar off.
austen|I assure you I have.
austen|His own father did not long survive mine, and within half a year from these events, Mr Wickham wrote to inform me that, having finally resolved against taking orders, he hoped I should not think it unreasonable for him to expect some more immediate pecuniary advantage, in lieu of the preferment, by which he could not be benefited.
dickens|I dare say we shall be often together, and I should like to banish any needless restraint between us.
dickens|All else was so quiet, that the flambeau carried up the steps, and the other flambeau held at the great door, burnt as if they were in a close room of state, instead of being in the open nightair.
austen|She could not be alone without feeling the full weight of their separate claims; and how to guard the comfort of both to the utmost, was the question.
dickens|On inanimate nature, as on the men and women who cultivated it, a prevalent tendency towards an appearance of vegetating unwillinglya dejected disposition to give up, and wither away.
dickens|But I dont say he dont refer to it within himself.
dickens|He sat, with his hands in his pockets and his legs stretched out before him, looking at the fire.
dickens|He knows nothing, said Defarge; at least nothing more than would easily elevate himself to a gallows of the same height.
austen|And, my dear, whenever he comes, you had better let him look at little Bellas throat.
dickens|Could I make a guess, I wonder, said the Convict, at your income since you come of age!
dickens|She giv him, said Joe, nothing.
dickens|I felt that I could bear no more, and that I must run away.
dickens|Him and some more was a sitting among the tables when I went in, and the landlord which had a knowledge of me, and was a sporting one called him out, and said, I think this is a man that might suit you,meaning I was.
austen|Let me entreat you, Miss Woodhouse, to exercise so charming a talent in favour of your friend.
dickens|Monseigneur, he was whiter than the miller.
dickens|Within a minute afterwards, he was, to all outward appearance, as unsubstantial as ever.
austen|She followed her father to the fire place, and they both sat down.
austen|Emma was most sincerely interested.
austen|Those were your words.
dickens|Because Ill never cry for you again, said I.
dickens|We were seated by the fire, as just now described, and Miss Havisham still had Estellas arm drawn through her own, and still clutched Estellas hand in hers, when Estella gradually began to detach herself.
dickens|Which she would have tapped yourn next, and drawd it off with you a laying on it, and was then a carrying away the coals gradiwally in the souptureen and wegetabledishes, and the wine and spirits in your Wellington boots.
austen|Harriet!
dickens|Not so very uncommon, youll tell me.
austen|Well, my dear, and did you get there safely?
dickens|I never heerd no more of him.
austen|Certainly, he replied, biting his lips.
dickens|The second tumbril empties and moves on; the third comes up.
austen|Upon this information, they instantly passed through the hall once more, and ran across the lawn after their father, who was deliberately pursuing his way towards a small wood on one side of the paddock.
dickens|Come!
dickens|Ive come for good.
dickens|Also, when we played at cards Miss Havisham would look on, with a miserly relish of Estellas moods, whatever they were.
austen|At the same time, I will not positively answer for my having never dropt a hint, because I know I do sometimes pop out a thing before I am aware.
dickens|A strong carda certain Guillotine card!
austen|Your friend will not take it amiss I hope.
austen|The other circumstance of regret related also to Jane Fairfax; and there she had no doubt.
dickens|Loo, loo, loo; Loo, loo, loo!
dickens|asked my sister.
dickens|Heres an early job to begin with!
dickens|Spirits are supposed to haunt the places where their bodies most resorted, and Monseigneur without a guinea haunted the spot where his guineas used to be.
dickens|Perhaps they replied, or argued the point, or tried to encourage me to believe that I was better than I thought.
dickens|Bah!
austen|I shall see her again!
austen|I found that Miss Darcy was expected to dinner.
austen|Not to appear to disgrace his family, to degenerate from the popular qualities, or lose the influence of the Pemberley House, is a powerful motive.
austen|said Emma, as soon as she could speak.
dickens|It is so, assented Defarge once more.
dickens|You know the consequences of mixing them?
dickens|There was a hurry, too, in all his thoughts, a turbulent and heated working of his heart, that contended against resignation.
dickens|These extensive arrangements occasioned us to be cut off unceremoniously in respect of breakfast; for I aint, said Mrs Joe,I aint a going to have no formal cramming and busting and washing up now, with what Ive got before me, I promise you!
austen|He did not know what they had best do.
austen|That is too young to settle.
dickens|I dont want to go.
dickens|It was a take in.
dickens|Young Jerry, walking with the stool under his arm at his fathers side along sunny and crowded Fleetstreet, was a very different Young Jerry from him of the previous night, running home through darkness and solitude from his grim pursuer.
austen|It cannot be concealed from anyone.
austen|It always has quite hurt me that Jane Fairfax, who plays so delightfully, should not have an instrument.
austen|We thought you were to bring them.
dickens|As we were going with our candle along the dark passage, Estella stopped all of a sudden, and, facing round, said in her taunting manner, with her face quite close to mine,  Well?
austen|All this spoken extremely fast obliged Miss Bates to stop for breath; and Emma said something very civil about the excellence of Miss Fairfaxs handwriting.
austen|Elizabeth jumped out; and, after giving each of them a hasty kiss, hurried into the vestibule, where Jane, who came running down from her mothers apartment, immediately met her.
austen|Her fatherand Harriet.
dickens|But I did mind you, Pip, he returned with tender simplicity.
dickens|After a little while, she raised her head, and looked at the fire again.
austen|You doubt me, cried Jane, slightly colouring; indeed, you have no reason.
austen|For a moment he was silent; and then added, in a tone much more guarded and demure,  Yes, Frank came over this morning, just to ask us how we did.
dickens|At last, when he appealed by name to Monsieur Lorry, an English gentleman then and there present, who, like himself, had been a witness on that English trial and could corroborate his account of it, the Jury declared that they had heard enough, and that they were ready with their votes if the President were content to receive them.
dickens|Dont you see her?
dickens|I consumed the whole time in thinking how strange it was that I should be encompassed by all this taint of prison and crime; that, in my childhood out on our lonely marshes on a winter evening, I should have first encountered it; that, it should have reappeared on two occasions, starting out like a stain that was faded but not gone; that, it should in this new way pervade my fortune and advancement.
austen|Who would have thought it!
dickens|Good patriots will know what that means.
dickens|To the Three Jolly Bargemen, therefore, I directed my steps.
austen|Mr Cole gave me a hint of it six weeks ago.
dickens|I like the look of that fellow.
austen|Mr Weston meanwhile, perfectly unsuspicious of the indignation he was exciting, happy and cheerful as usual, and with all the right of being principal talker, which a day spent anywhere from home confers, was making himself agreeable among the rest; and having satisfied the inquiries of his wife as to his dinner, convincing her that none of all her careful directions to the servants had been forgotten, and spread abroad what public news he had heard, was proceeding to a family communication, which, though principally addressed to Mrs Weston, he had not the smallest doubt of being highly interesting to every body in the room.
austen|Harriet smiled again, and her smiles grew stronger.
dickens|Dresses, less splendid than the dress she wore, and halfpacked trunks, were scattered about.
austen|But I tell you, Miss Lizzyif you take it into your head to go on refusing every offer of marriage in this way, you will never get a husband at alland I am sure I do not know who is to maintain you when your father is dead.
austen|Where shall you change horses?
austen|Humph!
dickens|Pray come in, said Mr Pocket, Junior.
dickens|She was a woman of about forty, I supposed,but I may have thought her younger than she was.
austen|And if they are, I only beg you to send them home.
dickens|I touched it so softly that I was not heard, and looked in unseen.
dickens|Joes eyes were red when I next found him beside me; but I was holding his hand, and we both felt happy.
austen|Emma was obliged to ask what they had told her, though fearful of its producing Mr Elton.
dickens|Dont let her throw it over my shoulders.
dickens|As long as you dont know whether they are in that room or not, you are uncertain what to do, said Miss Pross to herself; and you shall not know that, if I can prevent your knowing it; and know that, or not know that, you shall not leave here while I can hold you.
austen|You do not look well.
dickens|Though the earth was cold and wet, the sky was clear, and the sun rose bright, placid, and beautiful.
austen|My dear Emma, suppose we all have a little gruel.
austen|Ever since the dayabout four years agothat Miss Taylor and I met with him in Broadway Lane, when, because it began to drizzle, he darted away with so much gallantry, and borrowed two umbrellas for us from Farmer Mitchells, I made up my mind on the subject.
dickens|I shall be rendered Suspected, by my own sister.
dickens|He was goodlooking too.
austen|I met one as I cameMadness in such weather!
dickens|said he.
dickens|We were anxious for the time when he would go to his lodging and leave us together, but he was evidently jealous of leaving us together, and sat late.
dickens|Truly, madame, I think so.
austen|My dear sir, upon no account in the world; my father can direct me.
dickens|He had a good leg, and was a little vain of it, for his brown stockings fitted sleek and close, and were of a fine texture; his shoes and buckles, too, though plain, were trim.
austen|Mr Gardiner did not write again till he had received an answer from Colonel Forster; and then he had nothing of a pleasant nature to send.
dickens|I mean to explore those marshes for amusement.
dickens|I wouldnt wish to be stiff company, said Joe.
austen|No, no, let me shift for myself; and, perhaps, if I have very good luck, I may meet with another Mr Collins in time.
dickens|Ma thear Mithter Jaggerth.
austen|In another minute, Mr Bingley, but without seeming to have noticed what passed, took leave and rode on with his friend.
dickens|A brave number!
dickens|Feelings!
dickens|returned the mender of roads, with extended finger.
dickens|Who threw that?
austen|My friend has an excellent understandingthough I am not certain that I consider her marrying Mr Collins as the wisest thing she ever did.
dickens|My friend and companion, said I, rising from the sofa, is absent; you must have his room.
dickens|Yes.
dickens|As the keeper of the wineshop entered at the door, the spy saluted him by touching his hat, and saying, with an engaging smile, Good day, Jacques!
austen|The letter shall certainly be burnt, if you believe it essential to the preservation of my regard; but, though we have both reason to think my opinions not entirely unalterable, they are not, I hope, quite so easily changed as that implies.
dickens|Mrs Pocket received her property, at first with a look of unutterable surprise as if she had never seen it before, and then with a laugh of recognition, and said, Thank you, Flopson, and forgot me, and went on reading.
dickens|I have an impending engagement, said I, glancing at Wemmick, who was putting fish into the postoffice, that renders me rather uncertain of my time.
austen|They will sometimes obtrudebut how you can court them!
austen|No arguments shall be wanting on my part that can alleviate so severe a misfortuneor that may comfort you, under a circumstance that must be of all others the most afflicting to a parents mind.
dickens|The spy looked round at the two gentlemen; they both looked in unspeakable astonishment at Jerry.
dickens|observed Mrs Joe.
dickens|Many suffer with it.
dickens|Of the riders in the tumbrils, some observe these things, and all things on their last roadside, with an impassive stare; others, with a lingering interest in the ways of life and men.
dickens|said Mr Lorry, surprised.
dickens|I have known Doctor Manette and his daughter, in England.
austen|Wickham, perhaps, is my favourite; but I think I shall like your husband quite as well as Janes.
austen|Oh!
austen|And remember that I have not much reason for supposing it to be Bingley.
dickens|You have got it?
dickens|Not you  Unless in that form, said Mr Wopsle, nodding towards the dish.
dickens|There!
austen|I am almost certain that the meeting at the Crown is not till tomorrow.
austen|regular features, open countenance, with a complexion!
dickens|Finally, he had proposed, after anxious consideration, that Miss Pross and Jerry, who were at liberty to leave the city, should leave it at three oclock in the lightestwheeled conveyance known to that period.
dickens|He looks into the second not there.
austen|She thought it was time to make up.
dickens|she demanded, with a searching look.
dickens|Without remarking that mantraps were not among the amenities of life, I said I supposed he was very skilful?
austen|It really was so.
dickens|When they had ascended forty steps the prisoner of half an hour already counted them, the gaoler opened a low black door, and they passed into a solitary cell.
dickens|Here!
dickens|inquired the Judge, knitting his brows.
austen|Will you hear it?
austen|None; not one.
dickens|I opened the door to the company,making believe that it was a habit of ours to open that door,and I opened it first to Mr Wopsle, next to Mr and Mrs Hubble, and last of all to Uncle Pumblechook.
austen|Could he have thought himself encouraged, his looks and language at parting would have been different.
dickens|Why not?
dickens|Joe nodded.
austen|Why does not Perry see her?
dickens|And how should she be up there, without coming through the door, or in at the window, and up the stairs?
dickens|But, he had oppressed no man, he had imprisoned no man; he was so far from having harshly exacted payment of his dues, that he had relinquished them of his own will, thrown himself on a world with no favour in it, won his own private place there, and earned his own bread.
austen|And Mary King is safe!
austen|Assistance is impossible; condolence insufferable.
dickens|Monseigneur, a petition.
austen|No doubt it had been from jealousy.
dickens|The Vengeance and the Juryman, looking after her as she walked away, were highly appreciative of her fine figure, and her superb moral endowments.
austen|Of the ladys sensations they remained a little in doubt; but that the gentleman was overflowing with admiration was evident enough.
dickens|Well!
dickens|Change that cravat for this of mine, that coat for this of mine.
dickens|He asked her the question pointedly, and with a glance at her father.
austen|Emma was extremely gratified.
dickens|I hope, bursting into tears, I may not repay him by doing him harm today.
dickens|Her name and family?
dickens|Then youre wrong, Jack.
dickens|When I was clear of the house, a black muffler was drawn tightly over my mouth from behind, and my arms were pinioned.
dickens|Now, what do you say?
austen|I rather hope to satisfy you both, said Emma, for I shall do all in my power to make them happy, which will be enough for Isabella; and happiness must preclude false indulgence and physic.
dickens|If we had been waited on by any boat, I should have run in to shore, and have obliged her to go on, or to make her purpose evident.
dickens|It came into my head that he must have occupied this very vault of mine, and I got out of bed to assure myself that there were no red marks about; then opened the door to look out into the passages, and cheer myself with the companionship of a distant light, near which I knew the chamberlain to be dozing.
dickens|Evremonde then sees the Spy, and looks attentively at him, and goes his way.
austen|turning away distressed.
dickens|It is not wholly irrespective of our personal feelings that we record HIM as the Mentor of our young Telemachus, for it is good to know that our town produced the founder of the latters fortunes.
dickens|It missed its mark, and completely failed, as is often the way with his tribe too.
dickens|Yes, but lookee here, he persisted.
dickens|How much of my ungracious condition of mind may have been my own fault, how much Miss Havishams, how much my sisters, is now of no moment to me or to any one.
dickens|Well!
austen|On Sunday, after morning service, the separation, so agreeable to almost all, took place.
dickens|And I grieve to add that peals of laughter greeted Mr Wopsle on every one of these occasions.
dickens|What health?
dickens|I think, said Joe, after meditating a long time, and looking rather evasively at the windowseat, as I did hear tell that how he were something or another in a general way in that direction.
austen|You are charmingly grouped, and appear to uncommon advantage.
austen|Poor Mrs Dixon!
austen|was a question, however, which did not augur much.
dickens|Is it not so, Jacques?
austen|After a short pause, her companion added, You are too generous to trifle with me.
austen|The strangeness of Mr Collinss making two offers of marriage within three days was nothing in comparison of his being now accepted.
austen|To her he looked for comfort; and her assurances of safety, her representation of the excellence of the horses, and of James, and of their having so many friends about them, revived him a little.
